NUMEROLOGY
A
With Tantra, Ayurveda,
and Astrology
KEY TO HUMAN BEHAVIOR
HARISH JOHARI
GANESHA MANTRA
गजाननम भुत गणादि सेवितम
कपिल्यजम्बू फल चार भक्षणम्
उमा सुतम्शोक विनाशकारकम
नमामि विधेश्वर पाद पंकजम
NUMEROLOGY
With Tantra, Ayurveda, and Astrology
HARISH JOHARI
Illustrated by Pieter Weltevrede
Destiny Books
Rochester, Vermont
Contents
Introduction
The Vedic Square
The Sun and Number 1
The Moon and Number 2
Jupiter and Number 3
Rahu and Number 4
Mercury and Number 5
Venus and Number 6
Ketu and Number 7
Saturn and Number 8
Mars and Number 9
Summary of Interaction Between Numbers
The Compound Numbers
Projecting Into the Future
Relationships and Characteristics of Numbers Table
Footnotes
Sources
About the Author
About Inner Traditions
Books of Related Interest
Copyright
Introduction
Numerology uses numbers as a key to human behavior. It is an easy-to-learn
method that exercises the mind’s intuitive faculty to fathom the depths of human
personality.
Numerologists have to forget their own identities and devote themselves
totally to exploring the personalities of others. They must learn to become calm
and empty before they are able to use their intuition. Practicing the art of
numerology creates endurance, patience, and pointedness. Experience teaches
numerologists more than books can teach. The information contained in books
only opens the windows of the mind. One then has to work with one’s personal
understanding of that information. Information alone is not knowledge; direct
experience must be added before information becomes knowledge. Numerology
is simple to learn and very engaging, like the creative arts. It teaches one
sympathy toward others.
I advise my readers not simply to accept blindly the information that follows.
By observing their three numbers (psychic, destiny, and name) and the
relationship of these to the numbers of other people, they should formulate their
own language to explain what they understand. They should remember: All
numbers are both good and bad. No one number is superior to any other. All
numbers work differently through different human bodies, each with its own
genetic behavioral pattern. All numbers are influenced by the unique qualities of
their environment and by the collective unconscious. We can try to understand
them, but we have no right to judge and categorize them.
Numerology is a method of linking the microcosm with the macrocosm. With
practice, a numerologist starts to comprehend the influence of celestial bodies on
human understanding and conduct. All objects of the material world are related
to the nine planets.
For a numerologist the planets become embodied in a human form, and he or
she can closely observe them as a part of the cosmic play.
Those people who do not allow themselves the freedom of seeing the
influence of the celestial and astral bodies cannot observe this play. Planets for
them are objects in outer space that have no influence on their physical and
mental make-up. To them all predictive sciences are useless. People who have
time, faith, and enough patience, however, can watch this play and learn from it
the lessons that will guide the consciousness of coming generations.
Numerology is not a complete science. It is just one branch of the predictive
sciences. To be a good numerologist one must become a good observer and a
patient listener. Study of physiognomy and astrology is very necessary.
Numerology is much simpler than astrology and does not require complicated
mathematical calculations. There are just three things a numerologist needs to
know: the day of the month a person was born, the numerological value of his or
her popular name, and the person’s total birth information (date, month, and
year). From astrology, the numerologist needs to know about all the zodiac
signs, and a person’s day of birth, sun sign, and moon sign. In India, the season
during which a person was born also has to be known, since that has an effect on
one’s temperament. Certain information from physiognomy needs to be learned
as well, such as how the shape and form of the various body parts correlate with
an individual’s thinking process. (It is known, for example, that the perceptual
world of tall people is different from that of short people.)
The purpose of working with numbers is to save energy. People who act
without a proper understanding of the right moment to start a job waste a lot of
energy by making the wrong moves. Numerology provides the knowledge for
such things as how to select the right moment, the right relationship, the right
dwelling place—thereby saving energy.
Numerology must not be used to gain power and control over others. Also,
money should not be earned with this knowledge. Using one’s mind to explore
the personality of others for money alone will result in stress. Through the
selfless use of numerology, one earns good karma.
Simply guessing what number a stranger is could be fun, but it is more fun to
know how to practice numerology. By asking someone his or her date of birth,
one can then find out what sort of person he or she could be. This exercise is also
a good mind game. On one hand, it makes students of numerology use their
memory (their numerological information bank) and their intuition; on the other,
it makes them stay in the present and pay proper attention to the person in
question. The student becomes free from his or her little world and launches an
adventurous trip into a new personality.
Through numerology, all the aspects of life in various forms are explored. The
student sees how planets act differently within different people. The study of this
science requires that one have the alertness and openness of an explorer—it also
brings with it the joy that follows a successful exploration.
Having knowledge of the numbers and a good memory can save much energy
and time. A keen interest in numerology can work to enhance memory and
pointedness; it can also promote the intuitive faculty of the mind.
The advice that accompanies the discussion of each number regarding fasting
or gemstones is based on Ayurvedic and Tantric knowledge. Following the
prescriptions given will help to create a better environment for the
microorganisms living in our bodies. As receptors of cosmic energy, they serve
to create harmony in our lives.
Thus, numerology can provide:
a better understanding of both our good and bad sides
a method of accepting our weaknesses, and those of others
a vehicle for discussing these weaknesses
a joyful way of passing time
freedom and escape from our own personal worries
a good focal point, or method of paying attention and getting attention
popularity and respect
a tool for entering into the unknown
friendly interactions.
To practice numerology, we develop:
the mind of a scholar researching life
the alertness of an explorer
a good memory and pointedness
an intuitive mind
good conversational skills.
NUMBERS AND THE NUMEROLOGIST
For a numerologist there are only nine numbers from which all calculations of
the material world are made. All numbers beyond 9 are repetitions. By a simple
method of addition, they can be reduced to single whole numbers. The number
10 is not a whole number; it is simply a 1 with a zero.
Zero
Zero is not a number and has no numerological value. In the Western occult
tradition, zero is regarded as a symbol of eternity. It is surprising to learn that the
zero made its first entrance into the Western hemisphere only a few hundred
years ago. Its introduction helped considerably in the development of
mathematics, science, and modern technology. In the East, where it was known
from the dawn of civilization, the zero is known as Sunya (shoonya) or the Void,
which is the foundation stone of Buddhism. Zero has no value when it is alone,
because it is abstract and numbers are concrete. When zero combines with a
number, it gives birth to arithmetical progressions and the series of double,
triple, and multiple numbers, such as 10, 100, and 1000. When you do not know
about zero, you cannot play with numbers beyond 9 (that is, beyond the material
world). When you do know about it, its mystic nature leads you towards eternity
and impairs your material progress. Zero is considered unfortunate. When a zero
appears in a date of birth, it brings misfortune. Even the tenth month of the year
(October), being a 10, brings misfortune, although to a lesser degree. The
appearance of a zero in the year of birth brings the least misfortune. The
combination of zero with any number reduces the influence of that number.
People with a zero in their birthdate numbers generally have to struggle harder
than those without. The presence of more than one zero—October (tenth month)
10, 1950—makes one have to work even more in life. All numbers from 1 to 9
are present in zero, and when zero combines with these numbers, a whole series
of numbers evolves. For example, when zero combines with number 1, the
numbers 11 through 19 that belong to that series evolve.
1 The introduction of
zero aided the development of math, science, and the modern technology that
brought mankind to the computer age, but it does not “exist.”
QUALITIES OF NUMBERS
Even and Odd
Numbers can be categorized into two basic groups:
Odd: 1, 3, 5, 7, 9 and Even: 2, 4, 6, 8.
Odd numbers have an odd total; there are five of them. Even numbers have an
even total (four).
Odd numbers are solar, masculine, electrical, acidic, and dynamic. They are
additional (they add).
Even numbers are lunar, feminine, magnetic, alkaline, and static. They are
subtractional (they reduce). They remain without movement, because they have
an even group of pairs (2 and 4, 6 and 8). If we pair odd numbers, one number
always remains without a counterpart (1 and 3, 5 and 7, 9). This makes them
dynamic.
In general, two similar numbers (two odd numbers or two even) are not very
good.
even + even = even (static)
2 + 2 = 4
odd + even = odd (dynamic)
3 + 2 = 5
odd + odd = even (static) 3 + 3 = 6
Some numbers are friendly; some are in opposition to each other. Their
relationships are determined by the relationships between their ruling planets
(see chart on pages 188-189). When two friendly numbers come together, they
are not very productive. Like two friends, they both relax and nothing happens.
But when enemy numbers come in combination, they make each other alert and
active; both people have to work more. Seen in this way, enemy numbers are
actually friends, and friendly numbers are really enemies that stop progress and
activity.
Neutral numbers remain inactive. They do not give any support nor do they
induce or oppose activity.
Universal Friend
Number 6 is unique in that it is common to both odd and even numbers. It can be
the result of a combination of either 3 (odd) even numbers, or 2 (even) odd
numbers. In 2+2+2=6, the even number 2 is repeated three times, which is an
odd number of repetitions. In 3+3=6, the odd number 3 is repeated twice, which
is an even number of repetitions.
Being common to both groups, number 6 is therefore known as a “universal
friend.”
NUMBERS AND ASTROLOGY
There are nine single numbers. The relationship of numbers to planets is the key
to numerology. In the Hindu system, this relationship is the same as in the West,
with the two following exceptions. The number 4 in the Hindu system
corresponds to Rahu (the north node of the Moon), whereas in the West this
number is related to the Sun and Uranus. And the number 7 in the Hindu system
corresponds to Ketu (the south node of the Moon), whereas in the West it is
related to the Moon and Neptune. The nature or behavior of a number comes
from its ruling planet:
Planet Number Behavioral Qualities
Sun 1 kinglike, kind, royal, disciplined, authoritative, strong,
original
Moon 2 queenlike, royal, attractive, everchanging, delicate
Jupiter 3 spiritual, counseling, friendly, self-centered, disciplined
Rahu 4 rebellious, impulsive, short-tempered, secretive
Mercury 5 princely, entertaining, wily, intelligent, sensitive
Venus 6 romantic, slow, sensual, sweet spoken, diplomatic,
manipulative
Ketu 7 mystical, dreamlike, intuitive, inventive
Saturn 8 wise, malefic, servant-like, laborious, struggling, suffering
Mars 9 warlike, strong, rough, rustic, perfectionist, doubting,
fighting, alienating, discriminating
Each individual is influenced by three numbers: psychic, name, and destiny.
The influence of these numbers is distinct from that of the nine planets in the
astrological houses. The influence of the Sun itself, for example, changes
depending on the house and the zodiac sign in which it is posited in a natal chart.
With the Sun sign change comes a change in one’s behavior.
In numerology, all psychic number 1 people have some characteristics of that
number (1), regardless of the month in which they are born. The difference in
month, Moon sign, Sun sign, and ascendant only changes their attitude.
All number 1 people have the same good days, dates, and years; they also
have the same colors, gems, deity, and mantra. By contrast, in astrology the
power of a planet, and therefore its ruling number, changes, depending on the
house it is in. For example, an exalted Sun posited in Aries sitting in the eighth
or twelfth house becomes fruitless, because it is posited in an inauspicious
house. The same Sun in Aries becomes great when posited in the tenth house.
Similarly, an exalted Saturn is not good in the first, fourth, seventh, or tenth
house, but is very good in the third, sixth, ninth, or eleventh, and so on.
Astrology is more precise than numerology. These specific details help an
astrologer understand the status of an individual. Numerology is a more general
study and covers only the behavioral aspect of human personality. It has
developed its own language that deals with broad personality traits. But it is also
simpler to learn than astrology. It easily engages the mind without going into
elaborate detail, such as studying the movement of the planets. Numerology is a
do-it-yourself science.
NUMBERS AND PSYCHE, DESTINY, AND NAME
Psychic Number
Our mental make-up is directly related to the date, time, and place of our birth—
to that moment when we breathe air in for the first time from the outer
environment. It is sad that this moment starts with a cry instead of laughter. An
astrologer gives a precise shape to this moment with a chart, but for a
numerologist the actual date of birth itself is enough.
The psychic number is obtained by making a simple whole number of the date
of birth. For example I was born on May 12 and since 1+2 equals 3, my psychic
number is 3.
2
A person’s psychic number reveals the way the person looks at oneself. The
psychic number plays an important role in one’s choice of food, sex, friendship,
marriage, as well as one’s needs, ambitions, and desires. In Hindu astrology, the
Moon sign is the sign of the psyche. In the Western system, people try to
understand the psyche through the Sun sign. Numerology does not concern itself
with a Sun sign, Moon sign, or ascendant, but rather it approaches the individual
directly through numbers. As we have seen, however, numbers are related to the
influence of planets on behavior, ambitions, needs, and desires.
The planetary influence affecting one’s psyche can be easily understood by
knowing the psychic number. This number remains active throughout one’s life
and is very powerful up to the age of thirty-five to forty. After thirty-five the
other significant number, which is called the destiny number, becomes more
active. One starts feeling a change in attitude. The psychic number, however,
never loses its importance. The psychic number can be influenced by changing
one’s name. It can also be influenced by education, initiation, and marriage (by
marrying someone whose influence changes one’s mental make-up). The
numerologist must know that each person has two images: one’s self image and
one’s image in the eyes of others—the community, society, and world. The
psychic number indicates what one thinks about oneself; the destiny number
indicates what the world thinks of that person.
Destiny Number
The single whole number obtained from the addition of the date, month, and
year of birth is called the destiny number.
For example, I was born on May 12, 1934.
5 + 1 + 2 + 1 + 9 + 3 + 4 = 25 = 7
The 25 here must not be ignored, as the 2 and the 5 will have some effect on
one’s destiny. However, the 7 will be the dominant number. Of these three
digits, the 7 and the 2 play an important role, whereas the 5 will have much less
influence.
The destiny number is more important than either the psychic number or name
number. One always thinks in the same way, but destiny does not always work
the way one wants. Because destiny is more powerful after thirty-five, one has to
start compromising what one wants to have and to achieve. The psyche is free to
think, expect, and desire, but destiny brings only what one really deserves. This
is because destiny is related to one’s past life karmas. In the Bhagavad Gita
rendered by Veda Vyasa, Krishna says to Arjuna:
O, Arjuna, man is free to perform any kind of action, but there is no
freedom in getting the fruits of one’s karmas as one wants.
So one should become selfless—in performing actions, one should not care
about the outcome, the fruits. By not caring for the fruits of one’s karmas, one
gets beyond pleasure and pain. Pain is caused by attachment to one’s karmas.
Expectations are the real cause of pain. Up to the age of thirty-five one learns
this lesson. Then, to the extent that one gets away from expectations and
performs one’s duty for its own sake, one remains happy. The destiny number is
not subject to external influences.
The destiny number is related to our samskaras—vibrational patterns acquired
by actions in past incarnations, or karmas. It allows us little freedom of action,
but much freedom in reaping the fruits of our past karmas. Whatever we do now
will be returned to us in the future or in our next life; whatever fruits we are
receiving now reflect what we have earned in our past lives.
Life is a continuum. It is not a broken mosaic. Death is not the end. In fact,
there is no death. Death is a change from one pattern to another. Whatever we
sow, we will reap. There is no getting away from the fruits of our action, our
karmas. The residue of my karmas, good or bad, come to me as my debits or
assets. Work done in a past life comes easily; work I have not done before brings
with it challenges and obstacles. Knowing this, my mind and my attitude direct
me on a natural life course, one through which I can easily move. My past life
karmas help me and come to me as friends, gifts, rewards, and I am able to fulfill
my duties. When I have done bad karmas, the same efforts bring enmity,
opposition, loss, and punishment. The fruits of my karma are according to their
seeds, which I have sown in my past lives. This friendship or enmity, unexpected
reward or punishment, is all the result of pastlife karmas—its cause cannot be
traced in the present life. The fruits of karmas performed in this life can create a
good and supporting environment for a person—in this case, the cause of the
fruits can be traced.
When one’s destiny number is bad, a good psychic number, a good name
number, the use of gems, and donations to charity can create a congenial inner
environment. One will have to go through what destiny brings, but it will be easy
to bear. There are many stories of saints, and saintly beings, who performed
good karmas but had to face much opposition and suffering during their lifetime.
And, as well, there are many stories of bad people who performed only bad
karmas but lived happy and luxurious lives. These stories point toward the
destiny of these people: they performed good (or bad) karmas in their past lives,
and the good (or bad) karmas of this life did not affect them. They either lived
happily or miserably.
Name Number
This number is obtained by adding the numerological value given to the letters
of the popular name.
For example my popular name is HARISH JOHARI. According to the Unit
System, the value of each letter is as follows:
The numerical value of my letters comes to 7.
In most cases, people are known by their first name or family name. The
numbers obtained from these two names are also important, but popular name
means the name with which one is identified in work—the full name. So we find
that three numbers are important:
first name number
family name number
full name or popular name number.
The influence of these three numbers is experienced in three different
circumstances. The effect of the first name number is in whichever circle one’s
first name is used. The effect of the family name number is in whichever circle
one is called by that name. And the effect of the full name number is in the area
of official documents and business. Generally the full name, which is used with
the bank and on a driver’s license and passport, is called the name number. But it
does not always work out so simply. For example, the name on my passport is
Harish Chandra Johari, but with the bank and on my books I use the name
Harish Johari. A small group of people in India call me by my first name,
Harish, and an even smaller group of people call me Mr. Johari. Since my
popular name is Harish Johari, and the numerical value of this name is 7, my
name number will be 7. This is the name I am most known by in my worldly
dealings. (A considerably larger group calls me Dada, which is a 1. However,
since I do not use this name on my books and official documents, my name
number will remain 7.)
While the name number has a strong influence upon an individual life, and it
does affect the psyche, it has no influence over the destiny number.
The name number plays a key role in one’s social life and marriage. This is
the reason it was popular to add the family name to the maiden name after
marriage. Adding the family name to the maiden name creates harmony with the
husband in the family name; the woman shares the advantages of the new family
name. Yet even though the addition of the husband’s name can bring desired
harmony, sometimes this addition can change the woman’s name number into an
enemy number, creating problems in social relationships and business. Adding
the family name changes a woman’s identity and also influences her psyche.
One should check the proposed name number before adding or dropping a word
or a letter in a name. In some cases, this addition can bring good luck and
increase one’s happiness. The name number is very important for such
professionals as writers, poets, architects, and politicians because the influence
of one’s name number, unlike one’s psychic and destiny numbers, continues
even after one leaves one’s body.
The name number can also be changed so that it is more compatible with
either one’s psychic or destiny number. Harmony between the name number and
psychic number creates a good environment for friendships and social
relationships. One whose name number and destiny number are in harmony is
remembered after death. The name number creates a vibrational pattern with
which one identifies throughout life. The first letter of one’s full name has more
influence than any other letter in the name. For example, of all the letters in
Harish Chandra Johari, H is the most potent.
Influence of Compound Numbers
Although a person ultimately has three single digit numbers—psychic, destiny,
and name—the composite numbers from which these single numbers come are
important. If we look at the psychic number, for example, those whose birthdates
fall on a single whole number from 1 to 9 are purely that psychic number.
However, those who have a double digit birthdate, from 10 to 31, will be
affected by both the composite numbers and the resulting whole, or psychic,
number.
Number 1 people, those born on day 1, 10, 19, or 28 of any month, generally
have a bilious (pitta) temperament and are often active. They are, however, all
different from one another. Those born on the first, pure number 1 people, are
considered fortunate by numerologists. Those born on the tenth are a little less
fortunate, those born on the nineteenth tend to be more assertive, and those born
on the twenty-eighth tend to be calmer and more hardworking. These differences
are due to the combined influence of their double numbers (10, 19, 28). In a
birthdate of 19, for example, the numbers 1 and 9 are both associated with a
bilious temperament: number 9 (Mars) people make number 1 (Sun) people
angry and impulsive. In a birthdate of 28, number 2 is ruled by the Moon which
is ever changing; number 8 is connected with Saturn, a slow moving planet that
causes things to happen more slowly.
The first number of a composite is more important than the second because it
determines to which series the composite belongs. The birthdate of 12 (1 + 2)
belongs to the series of 1 (numbers from 1 to 19), while the birthdate of 21 (2 +
1) belongs to the series of 2 (numbers from 21 to 29). Both of these
combinations add up to a 3, but number 3s born on the third of the month will be
different from those born on the twelfth or twenty-first. The number 1 dominates
the life of the native born on the twelfth, and the number 2 dominates the life of
the native born on the twenty-first of any month. In this way we see how people
who share a common number (such as 1) are influenced by the double digits of
their birthdate (such as 10, 19, or 18).
A numerologist must be aware of the combination numbers, along with the
single whole number, to obtain a comprehensive understanding of the individual
in question. Doing so will increase the scope of information available, since each
double number also assumes a personality. Clarity in understanding will start to
develop. When one only thinks in terms of nine numbers, the canvas is limited.
But when one plays with combinations of the nine numbers and zero, the canvas
seems to become infinite. To enlarge one’s range of understanding by seeing the
same thing from many sides frees the intuition. To form an image of a number,
in accordance with the celestial body to which it is related, and to see people
living their lives through frequencies identical to that number, is working with
numerology—it is not addition, subtraction, division, and multiplication. A
numerologist needs many chips of information for his “computer.” The more
chips there are, the more possibilities of mutation. So the first job is to
understand the nine numbers as nine basic characteristics and then to understand
the “mixed temperament” of double numbers. When the images of compound
numbers get fixed personalities, then the numerologist can become more
accurate in ascertaining the characteristics of any given individual at any given
moment.
It is necessary to understand the following:
All numbers are mysterious agents of cosmic energy. They are not real,
existing entities, but symbols.
Numbers are connected with, and influenced by, the celestial bodies.
These celestial bodies, which emit measurable frequencies, exert their
influence through the temperament.
Numbers provide a key to the human personality and all finite existence.
All numbers have both a good and bad side.
COMPARISON OF NUMBERS
As a general rule, all numbers are good. We find by observation, however, that
some numbers are difficult as psychic numbers, but good as destiny numbers.
For example, the number 1 is difficult to deal with as a psychic number, but
becomes lucky for those who have it as a destiny number. The number 2 is good
as a psychic number, but presents difficulties as a destiny number. The number 3
is good as a psychic number, but creates problems when it is a destiny number.
The number 4 is good as a psychic number, but creates difficulties as a destiny
number. The number 5 is good when it is a destiny number. The number 6 is
good for women when it is a psychic number. As a destiny number, 6 is not good
for either men or women, although being a friendly number, it gets much help
from “friends.” The number 7 is a good number for destiny (it is my destiny
number!), but as a psychic number it makes one very self-centered, dreamy, and
difficult to reach. The number 8 is good as a psychic number, but not as a
destiny number. The number 9 is good as destiny number but creates discomfort
as a psychic number, especially for a conjugal relationship. We will see when we
discuss specific destiny numbers how using gemstones and making a name
change in accordance with one’s destiny can be helpful.
To obtain proper information about a person, one number is not enough.
According to most literature on numerology, all three numbers—psychic, name,
and destiny—must be known.
COMPATIBILITY OF NUMBERS
Sometimes a person’s three numbers are very compatible with one another;
sometimes they are not. The numbers 3, 6, and 9 are compatible; 3, 5, and 7 and
2, 5, and 7 are incompatible. When the numbers are compatible, there is more
harmony in one’s life. The more these images differ from each other, the more
problems one has in life. Such people complain that the world does not
understand them. They never think that this could be due to a numerological
disharmony—an incompatibility, for example, between their name and destiny
numbers. Sometimes people change their name and the attitude of the world
around them changes. Name plays a very important role in one’s life; sometimes
a fictitious name even becomes legendary, like Mickey Mouse. Harmony
between the destiny and the name number has a great impact on one’s life.
Astrologers sitting on the roadside in India are able to tell a lot to strangers, with
only the help of the first letter of their first name or popular name. One’s image
in the world is very much influenced by one’s destiny and name number.
Harmony between these numbers is necessary to obtain good results from the
karmas of the present life. In India the astrologer gives a name to a child that
always begins with the first letter of the child’s Moon sign, or Rashi. This
creates harmony between the psyche and the name. But that name is only used
by astrologers. Today people in India have two names—one based on their
Moon sign and Nakshatra
3 and the other according to the fashion of the day.
It is therefore necessary for everybody in general, and numerologists in
particular, to refer to the information in the chart on pages 188193 when
considering the relationship between the numbers.
Residential Numbers
The numerological information that follows is most often applied to the
relationships between people. It also can be applied to the relationships between
a person and an object, house number, street number, and the number of a
country, city, or town. Residential numbers include the house number, the
number of the street, and the number of the city, town, or country of residence.
For calculating the house number and the street number, the numbers should be
added together to make a single whole number (if the numbers are not already
single whole numbers). The number of the city, town, or country is calculated by
adding the numerical value of the letters forming the name of the city, town, or
country (see page 10 for the numerical value of letters). These separate name
numbers do not get combined to form a single whole number because of the
individual relationship each has to one’s destiny number during the time period
one lives in that city, town, or country. If the number of the residence one is
going to buy or rent is not compatible with one’s destiny number, one should not
move into it.
NUMBERS AND AYURVEDA
According to Ayurveda, the ancient Indian system of medicine, one’s
temperament or chemical nature is composed of the three humors: Wind (vatta),
Bile (pitta), and Mucus (kapha). The dominant humor within each individual is
produced by the influence of the planet that rules his or her Sun sign (see chart
on page 16). This chemical nature determines the physical and mental
environment inside the body, which the mind interprets as feelings and
emotions. When any one of these humors increase or get aggravated, it produces
a specific array of diseases. Under the heading “Balancing the Interior and
Exterior Environments” in the chapters that follow, diseases associated with a
particular number (thus, a particular planet and body type) are discussed from an
Ayurvedic point of view.
One method of cleansing and purifying the physical body in Ayurveda is by
fasting. Fasting does not mean complete abstinence from food. Fasting means
observing a particular attitude on the day of fast. One should avoid working on
this day and relax but not lie down and sleep. One should become slow, avoid
stress, and eat only once, in the evening after meditation. Depending on the
number in question, certain specified foods are recommended. One should avoid
anger, aggressive thoughts, negativity, and indulgence with members of the
opposite sex the night before the fasting day and on the day of the fast.
The pharmaceutical aspect of Ayurveda includes the ingestion or topical
application of certain powdered gems, which are used to heal the body
electrochemically. Gems are minerals in pure crystalline form that are created
when the earth is in the form of molten lava. Our body is also composed of these
minerals, and a deficiency of minerals causes sickness. When gems are ingested
orally, the body gets its supply of minerals to carry out its metabolic functions
smoothly, thus one feels healthy. When gems are worn as rings and pendants,
they react with light to influence the electromagnetic field of the body, creating
an electrochemical balance in the body. Proper rituals make the body ready to
absorb energy and go through these chemical changes.
Mixed Temperament
In the case of number 1 people born on day 28, the 2 reveals a mucus-dominated
temperament because of the Moon, and 8 a wind-dominated temperament
because of Saturn. Both humors working together in the number 28 will create a
person who will have frequent problems with colds and coughs and body gasses.
However, the influence of 2 and 8 together will make these 1s less authoritative
than those born on the day 1 of any month.
NUMBERS AND MYTHOLOGY
In this book we are working with numbers as agents of the divine, mysterious
energy of the cosmos—not as agents of the planets alone. Another tool that can
help the numerologist explain the characteristics of numbers is the knowledge
that can be derived from mythological stories. For persons practicing
numerology in the West, these stories must come from Western mythology,
although knowledge of stories from the Hindu tradition can provide additional
insight. This mythological information is not included in the present volume, but
it deserves consideration as a separate book.
Numbers of Exaltation
The number of exaltation refers to single numbers (psychic, destiny, or name)
that are arrived at by a particular combination of double numbers. For example,
those people whose single number 1 comes from 28 will have a special force
behind them and will be more successful in life than other 1s. The number 1 can
be the result of 1, 10, 19, 28, 37, 46, 55, 64, 73, 82, or 91. But a 1 that comes
specifically from 28 is called exalted.
The same is true for 2 resulting from 29, 3 from 12, 4 from 31, 5 from 23 and
32, 6 from 24 and 33, 7 from 25 and 34, 8 from 26 and 35, and 9 from 27 and 36
—these single numbers are all exalted. In determining the number of exaltation,
we have to see the double numbers as the conjunction of two planets. The effect
of this conjunction guides the numerologist to determine which numerical
combinations create a more dynamic effect. Their effect on vata, pitta, kapha
(Tridoshas) shows the mental and physical makeup of the native having a double
number. If the conjunction creates a balanced temperament it is called exalted.
The Relationships and Characteristics of Numbers table summarizes the
numbers of exaltation for each of the nine single numbers (see pages 188-193).
This table should be consulted on two occasions: before the numerologist forms
his opinion about any person or couple and before a student of numerology starts
a new job or a new enterprise. The chapter on Compound Numbers also
describes the characteristics of these numbers of exaltation.
In each of the chapters that follow we will discuss in detail the planets, the
psychic, name, and destiny numbers and the relationship between people with
numbers in like categories (e.g., psychic 1 with psychic 3, name 4 with name 7,
etc.). Remember, odd numbers are dynamic and even numbers are static.
Friendly numbers lead to relaxation and inactivity; enemy numbers, which create
alertness and activity, are helpful for one’s growth and are actually “friends.”
The Vedic Square
The presence of magic squares related to the planets, known as astrological
Yantras, clearly shows that the mystic power of numbers was known in ancient
India. The Vedic Square is a good example of this knowledge. Nothing about the
origin of the Vedic Square is known in India. The designs obtained from this
square are used as decorative patterns in various palaces and shrines throughout
India. Although not popular in India now, it has played a significant role there in
the past. Muslim artists and craftsmen as well have used the Vedic Square to
obtain many of their patterns.
The book Islamic Patterns
1 contains the Vedic Square, as well as dozens of
fantastic designs and patterns which were obtained from it. The square itself is a
table of multiplication of numbers. Instead of using the double numbers obtained
by multiplication of single numbers, they are reduced here to single whole
numbers. For example, 7 x 6 = 42 = 6. This use of single numbers makes the
Vedic Square very unique and significant. We can see the repetition of numbers
1 to 9 very clearly (see page 19).
With the exception of number 3 and number 6, each number appears in six
squares. Numbers 3 and 6 appear in twelve squares. The number 9 is unique in
the Vedic Square—it repeats 21 times! By joining the midpoints of the square of
any of the nine numbers, a diagram can be obtained. The book Islamic Patterns
shows how, by using these basic patterns, the craftsmen of the Islamic world
developed intricate and beautiful patterns.
These patterns can greatly assist numerologists. I use them to examine how
numbers relate to each other visually. The patterns in this book are provided as a
visual aid to readers and numerologists who care to work with them. The visuals
from the Vedic Square are purely geometric. Playing with these patterns will
engage both hemispheres of the brain and will help the intuitive faculty obtain
the information hidden behind these figures. By joining midpoints of the six
squares where the number 1 repeats itself, the pattern of a number 1 is formed.
When we place this pattern over other patterns obtained by superimposing other
like numbers, we can literally see their inter-relationships. If we color these
squares with the colors of the planets that correspond to each number, we can
obtain color visuals. Anyone can make a visual by superimposing the pattern
formed by their psychic number, name number, and destiny number. (See pages
7-11 for how to obtain these numbers).
The following pages describe the Vedic Square and show the different
patterns of the numbers derived from the square.
CREATING THE SQUARE
The Vedic Square is a square of nine tables of multiples of the basic nine
numbers. To make a Vedic Square we must have a square with nine equal
divisions on each side. By joining the dividing marks on all sides, we get a
square with 81 units of equal size. Now place in both the top row and the left
column the numbers 1 through 9. All remaining rows are created by multiplying
the elements in these two rows. All double numbers are reduced (by addition) to
single whole numbers. When you put the numbers under the table of 2, for
example, you have to use the following method:
The table of 2 will be 2, 4, 6, 8, 1, 3, 5, 7, 9. The table of 3 will be 3, 6, 9, 3, 6, 9,
3, 6, 9. The table of 4 will be 4, 8, 3, 7, 2, 6, 1, 5, 9 and so forth.
THE NUMBER NINE
One thing that becomes immediately apparent is the persistent appearance of the
number 9. We see that this elegant number alone forms the other two edges of
the square. Nine, the last number, does not change; all multiples of nine are nine.
If you add any number to the number nine, it will remain the same—nine will
not lose its identity:
9 + 1 = 10 = 1
9 + 2 = 11 = 2
9 + 3 = 12 = 3
and so forth.
So by examining the Vedic Square we have discovered something very basic
to Hindu numerology. Since adding 9 to any number does not alter that number,
in this system of numerology the number 9 (or any numbers adding up to 9) is
dropped before calculations begin.
When calculating single whole numbers, it’s easier to simply omit the number
nine, and not waste energy. To make a simple whole number for someone born
on May 12, 1934:
Add the remaining digits.
1 + 2 + 1 + 3 = 7
Similarly, to make a single whole number of the random digits
1 8 7 6 3 2 9 5 4
cancel the 9 itself and the following combinations:
1 + 8 = 9 6 + 3 = 9 7 + 2 = 9 5 + 4 = 9
Since all the numbers cancel out, the resulting single whole number = 9. Thus
we see, the number 9 should be omitted for ease in calculation. In the Hindu
system, the number nine is beyond the “ octave of Prakriti” (or the manifested
universe). Known as Primordial Nature, Prakriti is composed of the three Gunas
(3) and Five Elements (5). Going beyond this transitory nature, nine is, therefore,
the number of the unchangeable Purusha (Consciousness).
The eight numbers of Prakriti plus One, the Purusha, form nine—the
manifested world of names and forms. This one Purusha becomes many and
creates forms in combination with the eightfold Prakriti. If we look at the
multiples of the number 8 in the Vedic Square, we will observe a gradual
reduction from 8 to 7 to 6, (8 x 1 = 8, 8 x 2 = 16 = 7, 8 x 3 = 24 = 6) and so on
down to 1; then when 8 gets multiplied by 9 again it achieves full power and
becomes 9 (8 x 9 = 72 = 9). It comes back to 8 when multiplied by 10 (which is
a 1 with a zero), regains its basic number 8 with a zero: 8 x 10 = 80 = 8, and can
create a series of 8 with 1 and 2 and so on up to 89, where a combination of 9
leaves it behind and starts its own series of 9. Nine is therefore the number of
Purusha and refers to completion. Eight is the number of Prakriti and reduces
gradually to evolve other numbers.
These concepts, which are basically mathematical in nature, gave birth to the
mystic science of numbers known as numerology. This science starts with the
study of numbers as representatives of cosmic energy, which embody hidden
power and significance. Giving a particular number to Primordial Nature, calling
it eightfold, and perceiving existence through the vehicles of the Five Elements
and three Gunas, enabled the human mind to see unity in diversity and to
observe fundamental laws working at the base of all existence. Reducing the
innumerable to numbers, and contemplating the innumerable through numbers,
made man think about the basic nine numbers as not merely digits, but as agents
of cosmic energy. Each number soon came to assume a personality of its own,
which helped man determine the dynamics of his relationships to people and
objects.
PLAY OF OPPOSITES
The Vedic Square clearly reveals the play of opposites that occurs in the process
of multiplication of numbers. The visual pattern created by combining number 1
to number 4 forms a diagonal, connecting the top left and bottom right portions
of the square. And the pattern created from linking number 5 to number 8 is just
the opposite, connecting the top right corner with the bottom left portion of the
square. Patterns 1 and 8 are exact opposites of each other, as are 2 and 7, 3 and
6, and 4 and 5. Nine makes its own unique pattern, not complemented by any
other number in the Vedic Square.
These “opposites of nature” can also be found in the numerological
progressions. In column 1 of the Vedic Square the numbers progress sequentially
from 1 to 9, whereas in column 8, which is opposite of number 1, they go in
reverse order. Similarly, this is the case with 2 and 7, 3 and 6, and 4 and 5.
It is worth noting that all numbers come back to 9 before they get multiplied
by 10 and start their own series of numbers (see the description of zero on page 4
for further details about these series).
These numerological oppositions can also be seen when we assign numbers to
the nine cosmic energies that influence our solar system:
According to the information obtained from the Vedic Square (see page 19),
linking opposing numbers creates the same basic pattern, only they are reversed.
However, according to astrology the Sun (1) and its opposite, Saturn (8), have
entirely different energies—both in pattern-aspects and behavior. So the Vedic
Square is helpful only up to a particular point in our understanding of the
numbers: for observing the visual patterns of the numbers and their relationships
when superimposed. The mystic power hidden in the numbers, which reveals at
any given moment the unpredictable, is not revealed in the Vedic Square. For
this, the numerologist must cull information from many different sources,
including mythology, astrology, and the Cabala.
radsw
The Sun and Number 1
The Sun is the ruling planet of people born on day 1, 10, 19, or 28 of any month,
or whose destiny or name number adds up to 1. The qualities of the Sun
described below are most clearly visible in people who have a psychic number
of 1.
The Sun is the father of our solar system, around which all of our planets
revolve. All living forms within our solar system depend on the Sun for their life
force. Any planet that is in conjunction with the Sun loses its power; any planet
that comes too near the Sun becomes retrograde. King of the solar system, the
Sun follows the laws inherent in the particles of energy, the cosmic law. The
Sun, known for its regularity of movement, completes one revolution around its
own axis in twenty-five days.
According to the Hindu scriptures, the Sun is the dwelling place of ancestors
and is the first of eight vasus (dwelling places of consciousness). The luminous,
effulgent mass, visible with the naked eye, is the Sun’s body; its consciousness
is represented by a kshatriya (warrior king) on his chariot, driven by seven
horses (which represent the seven rays of light). His chariot moves steadily on a
solitary wheel.
The Sun gives an assertive, individualistic, exuberant, and proud nature.
The Sun represents a purifying male energy. Associated with Vishnu, the Lord
of preservation, the Sun is characterized as having a stable and selfless nature,
one that is strong, firm, authoritative, royal, and respectable. It is lord of the
East. The Moon, Mars, and Jupiter are friends to the Sun. Saturn, Venus, Rahu,
and Ketu (north and south nodes of Moon) are its enemies. Mercury has a
neutral relationship with the Sun.
According to astrologers, the Sun passes through one of the twelve zodiac
signs each month. The Sun is exalted (at its peak) in Aries; this power decreases
gradually, until the Sun passes Virgo. From Libra onward, the energy starts its
full descent and becomes weakest when it reaches the zodiac sign Pisces. From
there, it again rises to its peak in Aries. It rules the zodiac sign Leo.
The Sun influences the intellect—it makes its natives masculine, authoritative,
harsh, strong, witty, extroverted, helpful to friends, and brutal to enemies. Like a
lion, the upper torso of a native influenced by the Sun is more developed than
the lower half. They become famous and achieve top positions in their field of
work. Sun natives have bile-dominated temperaments. The Sun rules over the
right eye, right nostril, pingala nadi (right channel), the right side of the body,
and the left hemisphere of the brain.
NUMBER 1
Psychic Number 1
One is the psychic number of those born on day 1, 10, 19, or 28 of any month.
Psychic number 1 people are ruled by the Sun, which gives them fixity of
purpose and ideas. They tend to adhere to their ideas, especially when convinced
that they are on the right track. It is difficult to persuade them to change their
mode of behavior, opinion, conviction, or decision. They also formulate their
ideas quickly.
They have a clear understanding and a particular point of view, which
dominates throughout all the things they do in life. They are sober, solid,
punctual, and clear in their expressions.
They have a strong individuality and need a lot of attention and respect; they
are themselves caring for others and wish others to reciprocate. They make
friends easily and break friendships with difficulty.
They are authoritative and also are very fortunate in getting help from persons
of authority. Their good fortune helps them in every walk of life. They are
known as lucky people.
They like freedom and dislike restraint; they cannot bear interference in their
work, at any cost.
They love novelty and try to use the latest methods and technologies in
whatever they do. They present well known ideas as their own, from a new point
of view. They are creative and inventive and, most of the time, have positive and
optimistic attitudes.
They have strong builds, more vitality than other people, and are capable of
doing hard physical labor. Generally high spirited, they are large hearted and
hardworking people, free from envy, malice, and grudge. They are efficient in
their jobs, honest and true, and right most of the time, because they make the
correct decisions at the appropriate time. These qualities help them excel. They
rise in their jobs because they always think of reaching the highest ranks. They
labor hard to achieve the top and most of the time do so. If they do not succeed,
they become sad, pessimistic, upset, irritated, and depressed.
Psychic number 1 people have a fertile brain, brimming over with new
thoughts and ideas. They promote new ventures and new schemes.
They like to live luxuriously and in a royal way and spend money on pomp
and show, though basically they are spendthrifts. They also spend money freely
to buy gifts and presents for others. They share with guests and friends and
spend freely on them.
They are enthusiastic in religious matters and often believe that they are born
with a special mission. They constantly work hard to fulfill their mission, even if
it means sacrifice or inconvenience.
They are obstinate, and face ups-and-downs in their life without losing nerve
or courage.
They dislike criticism but like to criticize others.
They have good manners and good taste; they dislike disorder, laziness,
slackness, false pride, false praise, false promises, egotism, and flattery.
They want freedom with no boundaries.
They are clear in expressing themselves and like concise answers to their
questions.
They join religious and social organizations, but leave if they are not given
key positions. They can help only when they are given attention and recognition
and are admired for their hard labor.
They are benefited by members of the opposite sex in general and are liked by
them.
They are influential and influence their friends and colleagues. The active
years of their life are between thirty-five and forty-nine.
They are disciplined, straightforward, practical, and serious-minded people.
They are extremely kind, cooperative, and can control their nerves. They remain
firm and steady under unfavorable conditions and are sometimes obstinate and
easily irritable.
Like the Sun, they are a source of light and delight and are dedicated to
serving humanity at large.
They are fond of traveling and can adjust themselves to all kinds of situations.
They enjoy life and can appreciate art and beauty.
They are ready to accept truth and change their opinions, because to them
truth is more important than their opinions. They accommodate ideas from
everywhere and create their own path, instead of following the traditional
religions into which they were born.
They are very conscious of their public image.
They are basically friendly and helpful and can, in a short period of time,
make contact with strangers and inspire them. They encourage young people to
become leaders. They become famous in their society and are admired for their
hard work, poise, graciousness, and generosity.
Precautions for Psychic Number 1 People
Psychic number 1s should think of their budgets before spending extravagantly
on pomp and show, buying costly gifts, lending money, and investing in
business. They should not take risks in money matters.
They should not make hasty judgments, for these will bring failure.
They should refrain from the following:
Being overly ambitious.
Being too independent, lawless, or reckless.
Being too authoritative, bossy, or dictatorial.
Being too critical.
Demanding attention all the time.
Boasting.
Sensuality (if males).
Struggling alone and not asking for help.
Sharing beyond their limits with friends and guests.
Destiny Number 1
One is very good as a destiny number. As a psychic number, 1 makes individuals
work very hard to achieve prominence in life. But destiny number 1 people
enjoy the fruits of work done by others. Destiny number 1 people become
important in their own circles, consciously or unconsciously, while psychic
number one people want to become important, to become known and number
one in everything. Destiny 1 people are considered lucky by others. They are
favored with a strong mind in a strong body. They become leaders and heads of
their circle. Able to see the future clearly and plan accordingly, they achieve
success without effort. They get money unexpectedly and spend it with ease.
Destiny 1 people become known for their forbearance, patience,
organizational abilities, and persistence. If spiritually inclined, they become
heads of spiritual organizations and real teachers. As teachers they are clear,
precise, to the point; and they adhere to the truth. But since 1 is primarily a
number for worldly achievement and success, it is rare to find a great spiritual
leader with 1 as a destiny number. Destiny number 1 people are materialistic,
logical, and intellectual. Spirituality requires emotionality and faith, not logic.
Destiny number 1 makes its natives idealistic, courteous, kind, helpful,
popular, and quick in making judgments. Although they are right most of the
time, in periods when the Sun is weak (October, November, and December),
they can make mistakes. These bring them disappointments but teach them
tolerance.
They encourage their colleagues to excel, and they encourage young people to
become leaders. They are clever, always smiling, attractive, and draw attention.
Destiny number 1 people are not very romantic; they are unfortunate in
matters of marriage and love. They do, however, become great storytellers.
They are favored by government officials.
If their psychic number and name number are favorable (see chart on pages
188-189), destiny number 1 people rise beyond all expectations and become the
best in whatever they do. However, if these numbers are unfavorable, they
withdraw their participation and become introverted. Nevertheless, being lucky,
they achieve success and rise in the material field unobstructed. (This is not the
case when 1 is the psychic number or name number.) Destiny 1 people are born
with a missionary spirit and have a purpose in life.
Destiny 1 Women
Destiny 1 women who are not working in an organization devote their energy to
domestic life. They create a good environment for the friends, guests, and family
members. They help the needy and poor, and they become popular mother
figures. They are bold, cautious, sensitive, and face difficulties with grace.
If they do work in an organization, they hold important positions because of
their good qualities. They are sociable and have a regal way of handling things.
They have strong characters, orderly and systematic methods, and good
manners.
Destiny 1 Men
Destiny 1 men with a political career who are not allied with any party or
working in an organization, become popular and achieve high posts. They spend
their energy in planning to improve the living situation of the poor. They are
highly ambitious, authoritative, and pioneers in their fields. If they are writers,
they are scholarly and are very clear in expression; their topics are original.
If destiny 1 men work in an organization, they become heads of their
department. If they are born either when the Sun is strong, or on the twentyeighth of any month, they make good progress in their work. They gain the favor
of their superiors and subordinates and acquired top executive powers. If
businessmen, they make their fortunes between thirty-five to forty-nine years of
age, and save enough in the form of properties and bank deposits to secure their
future. They then devote their time and energy to the welfare of humanity. If
politicians, they are heads of their organizations.
Name Number 1
One as a name number can be beneficial. People with this name number are
remembered for a long time. As a name number alone, 1 is not capable of
bringing great success, but if aided by a destiny number of 1, it brings great
benefit—popularity, cooperation, fame, and attention. Having 1 as a name
number facilitates progress in all areas; it is very helpful for writers, poets,
musicians, actors, and leaders. The name number continues to work even after
death. It is effective and beneficial only in the social field.
BALANCING INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL
ENVIRONMENTS
By observing fasts, using the proper spices and gem powders, meditatingon the
mantras, and using the yantras, one can balance the internal environment.
Balancing the external environment is possible by choosing the right time for
activities (in the ascending cycle or descending cycle), selecting good friends
(finding compatible numbers), and starting a job at the appropriate time
(observing weak period and strong periods). Balance is achieved by working
with the energy flow that is already available, as described in the sections that
follow. The information that follows applies to people with psychic number 1.
Weak Periods
The weak periods for 1 correspond to times when the Sun is weak: during the
months of October, November, and December.
During these times they can feel a lack of interest in their work, setbacks in
their health, and stresses and strain. They can suffer from financial losses, have
unnecessary worries, get blamed for errors, and earn a bad reputation.
They should not make new plans, startnewjobs, or embark on any new
adventures; investments during this period do not bring good returns.
Number 1 men should refrain from excessive interaction with members of the
opposite sex during these months.
Strong Periods
The strong periods for 1s are from March 21 to April 28 and from July 10 to
August 20.
These periods are best suited for making new plans, investments, new
promises, new contracts, and starting new jobs.
Good Dates
Days 1, 4, 10, 13, 19, 22, 28, and 31 of any month are good for them, but 1, 19,
and 28 are especially good; all jobs started on these dates are easily
accomplished. These dates can be turning points in their life and are especially
lucky if they fall within one of their strong periods.
Good Days
Sunday and Monday are good days. If a Sunday or Monday falls on day 19 or 28
of any month, it becomes even more beneficial.
Favorable Colors
Orange, yellow, golden yellow, copper, and gold are best suited for them. They
should keep these colors around their living spaces and places of work, in the
form of curtains, pillows, sheets, tablecloths, and covers. A handkerchief in any
of these colors is very helpful during hours of stress and weak periods. Just
looking at these colors will bring them good energy.
Precious Stones
A ruby of five rattikas (3 carats) worn as a ring, with an open-back setting on the
ring finger of the left hand, is lucky for men only. The ruby should be bought on
a Sunday or Monday and worn after the proper rituals have been performed.
1
Women who are 1s, however, are not advised to wear rubies. They can wear red
spinel, garnet, and other ruby substitutes, such as red sapphire.
All men who are born on the tenth day or in the tenth month, or who have a
zero in their date, month, or year of birth, should definitely wear ruby rings.
Women in this same category should wear garnet jewelry (rings, pendants, etc.)
or another ruby substitute. Both men and women can decrease the misfortune
that comes from the zero by meditating on their gemstones. They should get up
before sunrise and before seeing anyone, kiss their gemstone, and gaze upon it
with love. If possible they should perform worship or donate money to holy
men, to please the Sun.
Number 1 men born on the nineteenth should wear rings set with ruby;
number 1 women should wear rings set with coral.
Men born on the twenty-eighth should wear rings set with ruby; these number
1 women, rings set with pearl.
All 1s should take ruby powder to help their bodies heal electrochemically.
After fifty years of age, number 1 people should use ruby powder with honey (or
cream) and powdered pearls.
Meditation
Ones are prescribed to meditate on the rising Sun. If this is not possible, they
should meditate on a ruby.
Deity
Their deity is the Sun-god. The Sun is personified as seated on a pink lotus in
lotus posture. While driving a chariot led by seven white horses, he is holding
lotus flowers in his hands, giving blessings and smiling.
Mantra
Japa
2
(repetition) of the mantra of any planet should be completed within the
ascending cycle of the moon and should be repeated the prescribed number of
times.
AUM HRIM HRIM SURIYAYE NAMAH AUM
Number 1s should repeat the above mantra 7,000 times within the ascending
cycle of the moon.
Yantra of the Sun
3
Health and Diseases
Although all 1s have strong builds, they always have problems with their
circulatory system and suffer from high blood pressure in old age. Their eyes
often cause them trouble. After fifty-six they may be hospitalized often, but they
will recover quickly and live a long life. They are advised to use foods that
purify the blood and refrain from hard work after they pass fifty. They should
massage their body with sesame or almond oil to maintain good blood
circulation. Any exercises that enhance circulation can be very helpful to them.
They should not ingest foods that increase acidity. Their temperament is biledominated (pitta), and they need to maintain an alkaline blood chemistry. Bile
gets aggravated by anger, grief, fear, physical exertion, improper digestion, and
the use of bitter, pungent, acidic, salty, and dry substances. Exposure to sun and
heat also aggravates bile. Bile is naturally aggravated in summer and autumn,
and at noon and midnight. They should avoid oily foods, fish, meat, wine, yogurt
(curd), and whey; they also should not eat in the late hours of the evening.
Before starting on any medicine they should use mukta pishthi (powdered pearls)
and manikya pishthi (powdered rubies). Powdered rubies provide strength during
their weak period, and powdered pearls help to keep their body chemistry
alkaline.
Fasting
Fasting all day on Sunday and eating salt-free fasting food (such as sweet
chickpea bread and milk sweetened with dates, flavored with cardamom and
anise) once a day before sunset is beneficial for all number 1 people. Fasting for
purification of the blood on lemon water for three days is also good occasionally
in summer and autumn when the bile is naturally aggravated.
Friendship
Psychic number 1s, those born on day 1, 10, 19, or 28 of any month, make good
friends for one another and for destiny and name number 1 people. Number 1
people born between July 10 and August 20 become especially good friends.
Romance
Number 1 people are naturally attracted to members of the opposite sex who are
born on any date that adds up to either number 1, 4, or 7. Number 1s together
form a relationship that remains good for a few years. After that they need to
find a project they can work on which is interesting for both of them or else the
relationship becomes troublesome. Number 1s are not compatible with 4s for
romance or marriage; 4s, however, give 1s energy. Number 7s are not good for
long-term partnerships. Although 1s find 4s and 7s both easy in friendship, 4s
are preferred. Number 8 people should be avoided as marriage partners, although
they can be beneficial in business partnerships and love affairs.
Women with a psychic number of 1 are advised not to marry men with a
psychic, destiny, or name number of 8. They should also avoid marrying
someone whose year of birth adds up to 8, or even getting married on the eighth
of any month.
Good Years in Life
The 1st year, 10th year, 19th, 28th, 37th, 46th, 55th, 64th, 73rd, 82nd, and 91st
are good.
Special Note
Persons born on the twenty-eighth are advised to care for and save money for
their future. They should be careful in spending money and take measures to
prevent its loss, either through business or litigation.
NUMBER 1 PEOPLE IN RELATIONSHIP
The information given below is based upon a comparison of psychic number 1s
to other psychic numbers. It can also be used to compare destiny 1s to other
destiny numbers, and name 1s to other name numbers. (The comparisons are
based upon like categories.)
Number 1 and Number 1
Two number 1 people are compatible, but they do not help each other grow and
develop. The laws of magnetism state that when two similar objects come
together, they repel each other; only opposite poles attract. When two people
with the same number come together, they become friends easily because they
have similar vibrations. But they offer no challenge to each other. They relax,
and they become inactive.
If any of their residential numbers total 1, it will be very helpful in the lives of
number 1 people. In friendship and business, number 1s are helpful to each
other, but because they are both interested in power and authority they do not
make good long-term partners. Two number 1s do not make ideal marriage
partners—they should simply live together.
Number 1 and Number 2
The Sun and Moon are usually thought of as male and female, father and mother.
However, Is and 2s, who are ruled by the Sun and Moon respectively, do not
form ideal friendships or marriages. Although called the eternal pair of
opposites, their relationship is not ideal because of their unequal status. As a
Sun-dominated person, a 1 is too powerful and dominates the weak and
tenderhearted 2. Number 2 people are easily influenced and sometimes
brainwashed by 1s—they act like followers, subordinates, or slaves. This creates
psychological problems for 2s, who by nature are temperamental and unstable. If
a number 1 man is interested in having a slave as a friend or wife, he should
definitely select a 2. Otherwise having a 2 as a wife will create problems—she
will make him even more authoritative and stubborn. To become more powerful
in politics, 1s should try to get 2s into their party.
Number 1 and Number 3
The number 3, which is ruled by Jupiter—a friend and teacher to the Sun—is
favorable for 1s. Number 1s should select residential numbers with the
numerical value of 3 for favorable and comfortable living conditions. As well, 1s
should select dates with the numerical value of 3 for making appointments and
starting new projects. In marriage and business partnerships, 3s benefit more
from 1s than vice versa. Number 3 people are good advisers and fond of
discipline. However, being a little self-centered and often surrounded by
members of the opposite sex, they do not make ideal life partners for 1s.
As business partners, 3s are also less than ideal. Number 1s, by nature good
workers, work hard, while 3s get all the benefit and credit for their hard work. In
politics, the friendship of 3s are very beneficial to 1s, because 3s are extroverts,
orators, and universal friends. These qualities make 1s popular and famous
leaders or politicians.
The farseeing vision and advice of 3s becomes an asset to 1s. Number 3s can
easily accept number 1s as heads of political organizations. Threes have a
fantastic ability to organize. Since 1s are also good organizers, they make a very
practical political team, whose ideals and work benefit the masses.
Number 1 and Number 4
The number 4 is ruled by Rahu, an enemy of the Sunin Indian mythology and
astrology. A number 4 person is an enemy of a 1, who is always attracted by
enemy numbers (opposite poles attract); paradoxically, they become friendly.
Number 1s are naturally attracted to 4s, and provide them with a helping hand.
Although 4s do not reciprocate this energy, they can provide them with romance.
They make friends easily. Friendship should benefit both friends equally, but in
this case 4s are the only ones who benefit. In short, number 4 people are not very
beneficial for psychic and name number 1s; they are good for people with 1 as a
destiny number.
Number 1 and Number 5
The numbers 1 and 5 are friendly but people with these numbers do not make
ideal friends, life partners, or business partners. The number 5 is ruled by
Mercury, the planet that is nearest to the Sun. But this nearness to the Sun
creates a restlessness in Mercury, and many times a year it becomes retrograde.
Number 5 people become more unstable in the company of 1s and refuse to
accept their influence. Although number 5s are not in any way harmful to 1s,
since both have independent natures, they do not work in harmony. Number 1 s
make 5s nervous by nature. Fives try to make everybody happy, and they have to
work hard to please 1s. Both numbers are lovers of what is novel and modern
and neither believe in popular religion, so they can work on their common
interests together. But 1s are idealistic while 5s are not. They always have
differences of opinion. However, in the political and social fields they can work
together, and a 5 can be helpful to a 1.
Number 1 and Number 6
The number 6 is ruled by Venus. The Sun and Venus are enemies. Number 6
men and women are very different, so we have to examine their relationships in
four ways:
number 1 men and number 6 men
number 1 men and number 6 women
number 1 women and number 6 women
number 1 women and number 6 men
These variables should also be considered when working with other numbers,
but with number 6 it is essential and of special value.
Number 1 Men and Number 6 Men
Number 1 men easily befriend number 6 men, but the friendship does not last
long. This is because the 6 does not have moral laws and believes that
everything is fair in love and war. Number 6s do not understand the idealistic 1s,
who believe in a disciplined life. Those number 1 men who are involved in
politics can be benefited by 6s of either gender. This is not true, however, in
business partnerships.
Number 1 Men and Number 6 Women
While number 1 men are beneficial for number 6 women and give them precious
gifts, this is not a good combination for life partners. Number 6 women do not
understand number 1 men, and because of poor communication their
relationships become frozen. Number 6 women can work as their secretaries or
in their public relations departments. Since number 6 women are talented and
have good taste and number 1 men love beauty, it is very easy for them to
become friends. But as these women lack discipline and are easily disturbed if
interrupted while they work, they do not make ideal life partners for 1s. Also,
number 1 men are too ambitious, demanding, direct, and linear for number 6
women.
Number 1 Women and Number 6 Men
Number 6 men are not suitable for number 1 women. They are always involved
with other women. Since number 1 women are idealistic, disciplined, and
possessive by nature, they have a problem with this behavior. They can have a
good relationship as coworkers, not as life partners. They make very good
traveling companions.
Number 1 Women and Number 6 Women
This relationship can be a good one; however number 1 women are talkative and
number 6 women lack clarity of expression. The ambiguity of 6s may annoy 1s.
Number 1 women love the slow-natured number 6 women and present them with
costly gifts.
Number 1 and Number 7
In the Indian system the number 7 is ruled by Ketu, an enemy of the Sun. In the
Western system it is ruled by Neptune. Number 7s are intuitive, imaginative, and
tend to fantasize. Number 1s are fascinated by these qualities and, being
ambitious and lovers of the novel and modern, want to make these creative ideas
into practical reality. When they point out to 7s how impractical their attitudes
are, 7s feel disturbed and inferior. This makes it difficult for them to work
together. They always differ, but 1s are very strong and successful and cannot be
disturbed by 7s. Number 1s can benefit by this friendship; they should employ 7s
as planners and designers. In fact, friendship with 7s brings good luck to all
numbers. Sevens are also good numbers for romance; they can enhance and
bring pleasant dreams to the dry lives of 1s. Sometimes the impractical fantasies
of 7s can prove destructive for the business endeavors of 1s. It is, therefore, not
advisable for this combination to enter into a business partnership. In politics, 1 s
and 7s can work well together but they always differ. If 7s cooperate, 1s can
achieve popularity and fame through them.
Number 1 and Number 8
The number 8 is ruled by Saturn, which represents darkness. The Sun represents
light and rules number 1. Numbers 1 and 8 are exact opposites of each other.
According to Hindu mythology, Saturn is the issue of the Sun and his wife,
Chaya (shadow). Saturn is a rebellious child, exactly the opposite of his father.
This opposition creates attraction, especially between members of the opposite
sex. Number Is can have secret love affairs with 8s, especially when the 1 is a
man and the 8 is a women.
A number 1 often is head of an institution and a lawmaker. An 8 does not like to
obey laws. A number 1 likes discipline and obedience to the law, whereas an 8
creates disturbances and agitation. Since the influence of 8s is detrimental to Is,
number 1 women are specifically advised to not marry number 8 men, or to
marry on the eighth of any month. In politics, 8s will always oppose 1s.
Note about Psychic Number 1 and Destiny Number 8
Psychic number 1 natives should donate black cloth, black beans, sesame seeds,
as well as a blue sapphire or lapis lazuli, to a needy destiny 8 person who is old
and learned. This donation helps 1s to avoid problems they might face because
of their own destiny number 8. They should do this at least once in their life, on
a Saturday that falls on a date that totals to number 1. In India there is a special
caste of Brahmins who except the donation for Saturn, but in the West one can
select a person who is dark in color, old, learned, needy, has difficulties in life,
and whose destiny number is 8. A psychic number 1 native also should wear a
ruby embedded in a mixture of copper and gold and should meditate on a ruby
embedded in the middle of a Sun yantra engraved on copper.
4
Number 1 and Number 9
The number 9 is ruled by Mars, a friend of the Sun. The Sun is exalted in the
zodiac sign Aries, which is ruled by Mars. The company of 9s provides positive
vibrations and energy to 1s and causes them to lose their identity; in each other’s
company, they act as one person. In numerology the numbers 9 and 1 are
identical—1 is the beginning and 9 is the end. Although both are powerful,
energetic, and perfectionistic, 1s are successful and lucky, while 9s are not so
lucky and suffer from doubt. Being assertive and direct, 1s can help 9s in this
area. Number 1s are hardworking and practical. A number 1 man should prepare
himself for problems when he marries a number 9 woman. Her tendency toward
isolation is not easily tolerated by the number 1 man, who is very sociable.
When the sexes are reversed, however, the number 1 woman finds the isolation
of the number 9 man very liberating. They form an ideal pair. Although 9s are
good for Is in any kind of relationship, 1s have to work hard.
o
°
이
Ο
O
이
O
The Moon and Number 2
The Moon is the ruling planet of people born on days 2, 11, 20, or 29 of any
month, or whose destiny or name number adds up to 2. The qualities of the
moon described below are most clearly visible in people who have 2 as a psychic
number.
The Moon is the most important planet for our Earth and our life. We do
depend on the Sun, for our life force; but if we were to receive it directly from
the Sun, life on planet Earth would not survive. The Moon reflects this sunlight
through its alchemical reflector, which is made of a special gem material called
chandra mukhi mani (moon crystals). Those crystals reflect the sunlight, adding
to it colors and hues of light that have a medicinal effect on our planet. For this
reason medicinal plants grow more at night under the moonlight. Sun rays are
charged with positive ions; the Moon converts these into life-giving negative
ions. The Moon is known as lord of herbs and medicinal plants in the Ayurvedic
scriptures. The word Soma, which means nectar, is another name for the Moon.
Etymologically, this reveals the presence of nectar in Moon.
1 The Moon is not
only a physical body composed of particles of energy, it is also energy that
nurtures the world of names and forms. It is the life-giving mother energy, the
creative energy, which is magnetic and positive. The planet itself is only the
vehicle that makes the energy available to our planet Earth. This energy acts
upon our imaginative, reflective, intuitive nature, also known as our psyche. Just
as the Sun acts on our intellect and Mars on our behavior, so the Moon acts on
our psyche and subconscious. It gives us sensitivity and sentimentality.
Astrological scriptures describe the Moon as rajasic, imaginative, receptive, and
changeable. The irregular movement of the Moon makes it more important to
our Earth than some other planets. A variety of patterns and an everchanging
play of energy fields exist between the Earth and Sun. It is through these
fluctuations that the Moon plays a major role in the emotional life of every
individual.
The Moon gives people a fluctuating nature, a love of aromas and perfumes, a
love of water, and of nurturing. It brings prosperity, respect, and honor to its
natives
2 and makes them lovers of privacy. Its natives are moody and easily
susceptible to coughs, colds, skin diseases, and heart ailments. They are mostly
fair in color with round faces and curly hair; the lower portion of their bodies is
often more attractive than the upper portion.
The Moon rules over the zodiac sign Cancer and is exalted in Taurus. In
Capricorn the Moon is debilitated (weak) and Scorpio is its sign of fall. The Sun,
Mars, and Jupiter are its friends while Mercury, Venus, Saturn, Rahu, and Ketu
are its enemies.
Natives born as 2s are peaceful, lovers of justice, tender, sensuous, lovers of
poetry, music, and art. If women, they are beautiful and very feminine. They
have a mucus-dominated temperament. The Moon rules over the left eye, left
nostril, ida nadi, the left side of the body, and the right hemisphere of the brain.
NUMBER 2
Psychic Number 2
Two is the psychic number of people born on day 2, 11, 20, or 29 of any month.
Among these people, those born on the twenty-ninth of any month are the most
fortunate.
The number 2 is ruled by the Moon, which gives its natives tenderness, artistic
inclinations, and a romantic nature. They are peaceful and gentle. Their
imaginative nature makes them inventive, but they lack determination and
cannot execute their ideas as forcefully as Is can. They need guides to assure
them about, promote, and execute their ideas.
The constant waxing and waning of the Moon influences psychic 2 natives
more than it influences any other number. Women in this group feel more
emotional ups-and-downs than men. Sometimes they feel very hopeful,
sometimes depressed; they are especially sensitive, moody, and sentimental. If
the Moon is well placed in their natal charts, they use this energy in creative or
positive ways. Otherwise, this quick-changing emotional nature brings them
mental agony. Those born on the twentieth of any month feel this mental agony
very strongly. If the Moon is not well posited in their natal chart, they experience
difficulties in life. If they are born on the twenty-ninth of any month, help is
easily available to them and they have a comparatively easy life. Men born on
the twenty-ninth are mentally strong, hard working, and fortunate. Those born on
the eleventh have very strong psyches, but as a rule they are delicate and do not
have very strong builds. They have personal problems because their strong and
demanding nature isolates them from their circle of friends. While all psychic
number 2s love to live alone, those born on the eleventh go out of their way to
isolate themselves.
In the same way as the Moon reflects sunlight, psychic number 2 natives
reflect the influence of the environment that surrounds them. If interested in
politics, they introduce reforms to change social structures. If they are writers,
through their writings they introduce changes that lead to a better and more
peaceful world. They devote their life to selfless service and helping others.
The Moon gives them a love of aromas and fragrances. They have refined
natures with good aesthetic sensibilities. If women, they are especially fond of
perfumes and prepare sweet dishes, cakes, or pastries with special fragrant
spices. They also use fragrant water for bathing. Although psychic number 2
women are family oriented and sincere with their husbands, they are very
romantic and quick changing. They do not restrict themselves to having a
relationship with only one man.
When psychic number 2s are humiliated or hurt, they become very strong,
tough fighters. They adhere to their decisions, commitments, or convictions and
face all opposition until they achieve what they want. They are not easily
disheartened, nor do they surrender easily.
The Moon represents the mother principle—forbearance, patience, love, and
tender care. Psychic number 2s have all of these qualities except patience. They
are kind-hearted, gentle, helpful, caring, and faithful to their duties. They treat
friendships as sacred and sacrifice everything of their own for others. As the
moon depends on the Sun for light, so they depend on other numbers—they
become more social and socialize easily. Because of their changeable nature,
they are fast thinking. They become involved with others emotionally and face
difficulties. As well wishers of humanity at large, they develop a philosophy of
peaceful coexistence—live and let live.
Because they do not like quarrels, they become good peacemakers. They
arbitrate and settle disputes in such a beautiful manner that both parties feel
satisfied.
They are also good diplomats and, as diplomats, they use their instinctive and
intuitive faculties to benefit the groups that they represent.
They love traveling and visits to foreign lands give them a cosmopolitan
outlook.
They do not like plans or arrangements made by others for them; they like
freedom.
They are less courageous and also less ambitious than some other numbers.
They are reserved by nature, somewhat shy, and never tell lies. Although they
do not hesitate to accept their follies, sometimes people make use of their
weakness and exploit or blackmail them.
Due to their constant worrying, which is supported by their imaginative and
fantasizing nature, they sometimes have to hear harsh words from their friends
and relatives.
They dislike people who make false promises.
They are impatient and seldom have to repent for it.
Although they accept their mistakes easily and feel regret, they never change
their behavior nor ever improve. They commit the same mistakes again and
again, and suffer.
They do not much like logic and criticism.
When the Moon is not well placed in their natal chart, they fall victim to their
delusions and doubtful nature. They become mistrustful and anxious and are
caught in their own internal dialogues. They also fall prey to people who flatter
them.
People with psychic number 2 are intuitive. When the Moon is well placed in
their natal chart, they are conscious of the intentions of those who flatter them,
but they remain silent and let themselves be cheated because they are gentle and
like flattery.
They are masters in the field of love and beauty.
When in a group of people with harmonious vibrations, they act boldly and
execute their ideas with unusually firm determination. Because they are hard
workers, they succeed in spite of their delicate bodies.
When their destiny number is in harmony with their psychic number, they
become firm and self-reliant. If, in addition, the Moon is well posited in their
natal chart, they become good conversationalists and brilliant speakers. Their
mind becomes clear, and their intellect and intuition both work together. If there
is disharmony between the psychic number and destiny number, or if the Moon
is weak or conjunct with a malefic planet, psychic number 2 people become
argumentative, doubtful, and nervous.
Psychic number 2 people generally have a habit of accepting the viewpoints or
proposals of others and cannot say no to people who create problems for them.
They are attractive and know the art of attracting and infatuating others.
They are easily satisfied, which makes them work less and gives them more
time to dwell in the world of imagination. This makes them less practical.
Psychic number 2 men are lucky in matters related to women—women readily
trust them. They are also able to influence and manipulate women and easily
extract their secrets.
They should avoid working on any project with persons who have a destiny
number of 5.
Special Note
Psychic or destiny number 2 people have to do everything at least twice. It is
rare that they do something in one attempt. This makes them spend money and
energy with less gain.
Note for People Born on the Eleventh of Any Month
Number 11 is thought to be a special number and is called the mystic number in
many occult traditions. In their story of creation, the Babylonians, for example,
mention the name of TIAMAT with its eleven supporting chaos demons. In the
Hindu tradition, there are eleven forms or incarnations of Rudra, the Lord of
Destruction.
In the first book of Moses, Joseph dreamt that the Sun and Moon and eleven
stars were bowing in front of him (Genesis 37:9). In theological scriptures, 11 is
a number of negative omens, of sinners, and of penance.
In the Hindu tradition, however, 11 is not a negative number or a number of
sin, but rather it is considered auspicious and dynamic. Because in it the number
1 is repeated twice, numerologists assign it an obstinate, revolutionary, and
authoritative character. Psychic number 2 people with this day of birth are quick
to respond, optimistic, and capable of guiding themselves and others through
difficult situations. Given good guidance and suitable feedback, they can achieve
great success in the material world. Although this number is associated with the
Moon and psychic 2 people born on the eleventh have all the characteristics of
2s—they are fickle-minded, suffer from periodical separation from their life
partner, and go through emotional highs and lows—however, later in life they
become famous and respectable.
Just as in numerology this number, which is calculated as 2 and also counted
as an 11, is given special attention, so also in life 11s attract and manage to get
special attention. Number 11 is called a mystic number because its natives have
a special sensitivity for feeling vibrations and seeing spirits and ghosts. This is
part of their fantasizing nature. They also like to create personalized rituals for
everything they do to generate feelings and attract attention.
Precautions for Psychic Number 2 People
Psychic number 2 natives should cultivate self-confidence, will, and
determination.
They should not lose their courage or fall in love quickly.
They should become independent. They should not postpone their work for
the sake of others, nor waste energy waiting for others to help them execute
a job.
They should not leave jobs unfinished because of loss of interest.
They should stick to their decisions.
They should avoid swimming or boating in deep waters.
They should avoid doing things in a hurry, and they should practice
meditation or mind control to overcome their restlessness. In addition to
meditation, the use of pearl powder (mukta pishthi) is helpful if taken orally
with honey before going to bed. This will not only cure their nervousness
but also their doubtful nature, because doubt originates from low blood
sugar and improper body chemistry.
They should avoid the company of those who flatter them.
They should avoid foods not suitable to their stomach and heart. Being too
sentimental disturbs the stomach and brings about constipation. This, in
turn, produces gastritis and gas, which when disturbed, create problems for
the heart. Psychic number 2 people are prone to stomach and heart
problems. Avoiding constipating foods is key to their physical and mental
well-being.
They should become conscious of their friendships with members of
opposite sex. Having too many friends creates problems, because each
friend is a “ separate world.” Psychic number 2s are emotional, sensitive
people who tend to waste energy when they get emotionally involved.
They should also keep away from people suffering from infectious diseases
as they are prone to infections and their immune system is weak. Morning
walks and massages strengthen their immune systems. They should try to
acquire more physical strength because their systems are delicate.
They should learn about the Moon and its strong and weak periods.
They should avoid exposure of their necks and chests during illnesses of the
throat and lungs.
They should avoid anger, which burns the life-giving body fluids since,
physically, they are not strong. A fit of anger can cause hysteria and lead
them into an unconscious state.
They should not make important decisions when (1) the Moon is full, (2)
the Moon’s rising time is close to the rising time of Sun (the last three days
of the descending Moon cycle), or (3) they are near large bodies of water.
Decisions are best made midway through the descending cycle or the
ascending cycle of the Moon. During these times the Moon is not powerful.
Because 2s are ruled by the Moon, both the full Moon and new Moon
influence their temperament.
They should take up sports and hobbies that involve them in outdoor
activities. They should be forced to exercise to keep their physique in
proper shape.
Destiny Number 2
Generally 2 is not good as a destiny number. When two is the destiny number
and psychic number, its effect is very powerful: destiny number 2 brings mental
and psychological growth, which enables natives to feel more confidence and
make a mark in the world. Of all the 2 combinations a person can have, this one
(psychic 2 and destiny 2) is the best.
When psychic number, name number, and destiny number are all 2, the
influence of the Moon is predominant, which can create mental instability, a lack
of determination, and an increase in doubt. However, if the Moon is well posited
and supported by friendly planets, this combination can become very strong.
Destiny 2 makes its natives face great ups-and-downs; opportunities slip from
their hands just when success is within their grasp. Because they feel victim to
unpredictable changes, they often experience helplessness.
Destiny 2 people love their homes and families. They take a keen interest in
their domestic affairs and have strong family ties.
Destiny 2 makes them insecure and less than ideally successful in love affairs,
if they are men. If women, they get blamed in love affairs.
Destiny 2 males study a lot to increase their knowledge and improve their
understanding.
Destiny 2s are born with a great sense of self-respect, which makes them
precise and well mannered. They believe in the axiom, “Do unto others as you
would like others to unto you.” Favored by good friends, strong followers,
positive circumstances, and clarity of understanding, they act with great
confidence and do not doubt themselves. Under such conditions, they can
perform miracles in any field they are deeply involved in.
Destiny 2 gives people a love of rivers, streams, waterfalls, springs, lakes, and
ponds.
Destiny 2s like to live in groups and like good company. They can delay
important jobs, appointments, or transactions, or leave them, for the sake of good
company. Their work suffers because of their dependence on others and the love
of good company, harmonious vibrations, and friendship. Destiny 2 people have
strong intuitive powers. They can read the minds of others. They can enter
deeply into the personalities of others and measure their depth.
Destiny 2 men are fortunate and marry educated and beautiful women; they
have virtuous mothers, as well as loving sisters and sisters-in-law. They are
helped by elderly women, women natives, or women who hold key positions in
their communities. The marriages of destiny 2 men are often short.
Destiny 2 women are emotional and devoted to their life partners. They dress
smartly, look young, and are attractive.
Destiny 2 people are interested in herbs and medicinal plants; they love
gardening. They also like to redecorate their homes often.
They can also become good psychologists, creative thinkers, poets, writers,
counselors, therapists, doctors, actors, or dancers.
They are egoless; they do not wait for appreciation after performing a service.
They can work well as counselors to couples having interpersonal problems.
When they pass thirty-five years of age, they become more interested in occult
sciences, philosophy, and spiritual life.
Special Note
Psychic or destiny number 2 people have to do everything at least twice. It is
rare that they do something in one attempt. This makes them spend money and
energy with less gain.
Name Number 2
Number 2 as a name number brings gentleness and youth. The calming effect of
this number makes those who have it as a name number content and peaceful. If
in harmony with the destiny number, a name number is very helpful in bringing
fame. Those with this name number find it brings changes to their lives. But it
can also give them success in such areas as the import and export business and
herbal remedy business. This name number draws help from elderly women, in
particular, and women, in general.
BALANCING INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL
ENVIRONMENTS
By observing fasts, using the proper spices and gem powders, meditating on the
mantras, and using the yantras, one can balance the internal environment.
Balancing the external environment is possible by choosing the right time for
activities (in the ascending cycle or descending cycle), selecting good friends
(finding compatible numbers), and starting a job at the appropriate time
(observing weak period and strong periods). Balance is achieved by working
with the energy flow that is already available, as described in the sections that
follow. The information that follows applies to people with psychic number 2.
Weak Periods
December, January, and February are the months when number 2s face many
physiological and psychological problems. They should prepare themselves to
face hardships during these months.
Strong Periods
The period between June 20 and July 27, called the “ House of the Moon,” is the
most beneficial time for 2s. During this period they should devote their energy to
promoting their business. This is also a suitable time for all sorts of auspicious
activities, traveling, and planning for the future.
Good Dates
Days 2, 11, 20, and 29 of any month are good; days 1, 4, 7, 10, 13, 16, 19, 22,
and 25 of any month are also beneficial. If they fall on a Monday, the second
group of dates become very good.
Good Days
Monday is the best day of the week for number 2 people. If a Monday falls on
day 1, 2, 4, 7, 10, 11, 13, 16, 19, 20, 22, 25, or 29 of any month, it becomes an
especially good day. Any Sunday that falls on one of the above dates also proves
to be good for number 2 people.
Favorable Colors
White is the best color for 2s, because it is the color of the Moon. Number 2
people are advised to keep a white handkerchief with them. Whenever they don’t
feel good or feel a lack of energy, they should wipe their hands and face with
this white handkerchief to change their mood. White, light green, blue, cream, or
grape colors are also helpful. Light green is good for their mental power, and the
grape color soothes their nervous system.
Precious Stones
Pearls are the gemstone of the Moon and, because 2s are ruled by the Moon, it is
their precious stone. They can also use crystal, quartz, moonstone, greenish or
white agate, or jade. The minimum weight required for a pearl is four rattikas.
Pearls are not measured by carats but by chav. So the weight of a pearl would be
9 chav, 16 points. (This translates as 31/2 carats.)
The pearl, or substitute gem, should be bought during an ascending cycle of
the Moon on a Monday and given to the jeweler on the same day. The ring or
pendant, whatever is made, should also be obtained from the jeweler on a
Monday during the ascending cycle, and worn after proper rituals have been
performed.
Women can wear pearls in a necklace, an arm band, or any kind of setting in
which the gemstone touches the skin.
They should take pearl powder to help heal their bodies electrochemically.
Meditation
Number 2 people are supposed to meditate on Lord Shiva. If they have no way
of meditating on Shiva, they can start the day with meditation on a pearl, crystal,
moonstone, or quartz.
Deity
Their deity is Shiva. He is seated on a tiger skin in lotus posture, holding a
trident in his left hand and conferring blessings with his right hand. A stream of
water is coming out from his matted locks. Shiva is smiling and looking with
love through his half-open eyes.
Mantra
Japa
3
(repetition) of the mantra of any planet should be completed within the
ascending cycle of the moon and should be repeated the prescribed number of
times.
AUM SOM SOMAYE NAMAH—AUM
AUM SHRIM KRIM CHAM CHANDRAYE NAMAH—AUM
Either of the above two mantras can be recited. The prescribed number of
mantra repetitions is eleven thousand.
Yantra of the Moon
4
Health and Diseases
Because number 2 people are often not strong in build and have weak
constitutions, they are prone to the following conditions:
Stress and strain. This can trouble their nervous system.
Heart diseases. They are emotional and sensitive by nature; they love
family life and often get into emotional conflicts. They are advised to avoid
these conflicts. They should use pearl powder, wear a Rudraksha bead (a
seed used as the sacred bead of Shiva), drink water from a silver glass, and
meditate. To abstain from speech and sleep or abstain from just sleep on a
full moon night and full moon day is also very helpful.
Weak digestive systems. They are prone to indigestion, constipation, lack of
appetite, and intestinal and gas troubles.
Weak immune systems. They are especially susceptible to infections and
infectious diseases.
Seminal diseases (for men) and uterine infections and leukorrhea (for
women).
Liver disorders. This is due to their love for sweets and their irregular
eating habits.
Colds, coughs, and lung disorders. These illnesses are due to a dominance
of mucus in their body.
Number 2 people should massage their body regularly. They should take
freshly ground black pepper and honey the first thing in the morning. Fenugreek
seeds should be taken with soups or vegetables. If possible they should use
almond paste, made by grinding almonds on a stone tablet or in a blender. The
almonds should be soaked overnight and peeled. They should avoid becoming
addicted to coffee or tobacco and constipating foods. Once a month they should
do an inner purification, drinking only water with lemon. Taking homemade
buttermilk and other foods that clean the lower abdominal tract is good for their
health.
Fasting
On Mondays they should fast and after sunset they should avoid salt, spices,
grains, pulses, or any solid foods. If necessary, they can use a purifying tea made
from herbs (mint, dandelion, fenugreek) or drink fresh fruit juices (canned or
bottled juices should not be used). They can also fast on buttermilk or water with
half a lemon squeezed into each glass. Fasting on full moon days, as mentioned
above, is very beneficial for their psyche.
Friendship
Good friends of number 2 are men and women born on day 2, 11, 20, 29, or day
4, 6, 8, and 9 of any month.
Romance
Number 2s are normally attracted to numbers Is, 2s, 7s, 8s or 9s. Although 2s are
not too good for romance, 1 s and 9s are very good. Their association with 7s or
8s also produce fine results, but these numbers are beneficial to their
advancement in the spiritual field. Their association with 4s or 5s brings
difficulties, although it helps their growth. Number 1, 2, 7, or 9 people born
between June 20 and July 27 make ideal romance partners for number 2s.
Good Years in Life
The 1st year, 2nd, 4th, 7th, 10th, 11th, 13th, 16th, 19th, 20th, 22nd, 25th, 28th,
29th, 31st, 34th, 35th, 37th, 38th, 40th, 43rd, 44th, 46th, 47th, 52nd, 53rd, 55th,
56th, 58th, 61st, 62nd, 64th, 65th, 67th, 71st, 74th, and 83rd are good. Of these,
the 11th, 20th, 29th, 38th, 47th, 56th, 65th, 74th, and 83rd years are especially
important and favorable.
NUMBER 2 PEOPLE IN RELATIONSHIP
The information given below is based upon a comparison of psychic number 2s
to other psychic numbers. It can also be used to compare destiny 2s to other
destiny numbers, and name 2s to other name numbers. (The comparisons are
based upon like categories.)
Number 2 and Number 1
Two is the Moon, and 1 the Sun. The Moon is benefited by the Sun and converts
the solar energy into lunar energy. Solar energy is full of positive ions, which are
not healthy for life on Earth. The Moon converts these into negative, life-giving
ions, which help our existence on Earth. Just as the Moon brings about a change
in the energy of the Sun, so a 2 removes the bad habits of a 1. Number 2s can
serve as good company and as good therapists to 1s and help them overcome
their shortcomings. Because 1s are too dominating, this combination does not
make for an ideal marriage. Should they marry, 1 would be benefited by the
union. Number 1s are beneficial friends and protectors to 2s. In a business
partnership also, 1s are good, but the 2s will have to serve as yes-men. Though
legally they have equal rights, in practice the 2s do not have equal rights here.
Number 1s, however, never cause any harm to 2s in business.
Number 2 and Number 2
Like repels like. These two numbers cannot coexist for a long time. They are of
the same wavelength, they are friendly to each other, but their friendship has a
short life. They both change their minds frequently, and so their partnership in a
business venture brings failure. Marriage betreen two number 2s is also
unsuccessful, and they will be compelled to divorce each other. This
combination is good for work, if the territories of both are well marked—“your
liberty ends where my nose begins.”
Number 2 and Number 3
Three is ruled by Jupiter, a planet personified as a teacher who likes discipline,
self-control, pointedness, total attention, and concentration. These are all
difficult tasks for a 2. Jupiter is a friend of the Moon but has a neutral attitude.
Number 3s can give good advice and feel sympathetic toward them, but cannot
make them good husbands or business partners. This is because 2 is a number of
change, and 3s like to follow established routines. But because 2s are suitable for
spiritual advancement and develop interest in the occult sciences, they need the
help of 3s, who have similar interests. In such cases, 2s can receive help from 3s
if they can learn patience. Threes are also good for teaching 2s about the
sciences, and the latter can be very good students. However, the permanent bond
of Guru and disciple is difficult between them.
Number 2 and Number 4
Four is ruled by Rahu, an enemy of both the Sun and the Moon. Rahu, the north
node of the Moon, is also called the magnetic north pole of the Moon. The north
and south nodes form the two fixed points on the elliptical path of the Moon.
Number 2 people are naturally attracted to numbers 4s, who grow and develop
from this relationship. Twos face hardships and difficulties in association with
destiny number 4, except when the 4 is a husband or business partner. Then the
2s are benefited by the relationship, and both partners experience peace and
prosperity. Number 4s are a good number for 2s. Being a number of sudden
changes, a 4 is not bothered by the changing nature of a 2.
When the 2 is a man and the 4 a woman, they do have difficulties and
hardships early in their marital relationship, but these difficulties produce good
results. They progress in their life without suffering and, although they might
neglect their domestic and family matters and feel irritated toward each other,
their family and business life goes well. If 2s are interested in politics, teaching,
research, philosophy, or occult practices, they advance in these fields with the
mutual support and cooperation of 4s.
If number 2s have a destiny number of 4, their marriage can be delayed. The
latter part of their life is good.
Number 2 and Number 5
Five is ruled by Mercury. Since Mercury is not a friend of the Moon, these two
numbers are not in perfect harmony with each other. Psychic number 2 natives
with a destiny number of 5 face problems in their life related to family, children,
and parents. They are also self-critical. Psychic number 2 people are advised to
avoid emotional bonds with destiny 5s. If they marry, the marriage will not last
for more than four or five years. Their relationship as life or business partners
will not be harmonious.
Number 2 and Number 6
Six is ruled by Venus. Venus, although a universal friend, is not a friend to the
Moon; it is neutral in relationship to the moon. For this reason, 2s and 6s enjoy a
good friendship but do not make ideal life or business partners. Number 6s
receive more financial benefit from this relationship than 2s; they also get
popularity, name, and fame. Venus is a beneficial planet that brings 2s good luck
with 6s, but they are not ideal as married couples. This is especially true if the 2
is a man and the 6 a woman. Friendships and businesses between 2s and 6s are
always mutually beneficial.
Number 2 and Number 7
Seven is ruled by Ketu, an enemy and the exact opposite of the number 2. Since
the Moon (2) always must pass through its southpole (7) while on its elliptical
path, 2s benefit from 7s. However, the opposite is not true. Number 7s guide and
always lead 2s toward the right path, yet they are not ideal couples. Since a 2 is
an even, static number and a 7 is an odd, dynamic number, their friendship
brings positive results for 2s.
Number 2 and Number 8
Eight is ruled by Saturn, which is neutral in relationship to the Moon. Since
these numbers are both even, their relationship is static. Their friendship or
business partnership is fair but not very beneficial. Number 2 women are advised
not to enter into marriage with 8 men, but 8 women can do no harm to 2 men.
Number 2s do not help 8s, but can use the services of 8s, a number of services,
without hesitation.
Number 2 and Number 9
Nine is ruled by Mars, a friend and protector of the Moon. A number 9 makes an
ideal friend, business partner, or spouse for a 2, whether male or female. They
will have a loving and affectionate relationship. They provide good energy to
each other. Number 2 people are, therefore, advised to find a number 9 mate.
Jupiter and Number 3
Jupiter is the ruling planet of people born on day 3, 12, 21, or 30 of any month,
or whose destiny or name number ads up to 3. The qualities of Jupiter described
below are most clearly visible in people who have 3 as a psychic number.
Jupiter is a giant, self-illuminating planet that radiates more energy than it
receives from the Sun. Because of its enormous size, it is the heaviest of all
planets in our solar system. It is known by the term Guru, which means both
“heavy” and “remover of darkness” in Sanskrit. This makes Jupiter a teacher of
the assembly of Gods (Deva-Guru), a teacher of righteousness, justice, and selfillumination. As Gurus mirror the life of their students, being true perceptors and
helpers, so does Jupiter help in the progress and expansion of consciousness of
whatever it touches.
According to Hindu scriptures, Jupiter is a planet of courage, boldness, power,
hard work, energy, knowledge, and speech. One Sanskrit name for Jupiter is
Vachaspati: vacha comes from vak, which means “spoken words” and pati
which means “Lord.”)Thus, Vachaspati is Lord of Speech.
Jupiter, a benefic planet, has the Sun, Moon, and Mars as friends. It rules over
the zodiac signs Sagittarius and Pisces, is exalted in Cancer, and debilitated in
Capricorn. Gemini and Virgo are its signs of detriment. Jupiter is the natural
Lord of the ninth house and the twelfth house. Since the ninth house is the house
of fate, one of the most important houses, its lordship makes the placement of
Jupiter in the natal chart very significant.
Jupiter is also important because it rules over progeny, education, and
marriage. Its placement in a woman’s natal astrology chart determines the
lifespan, status, character, and behavior of her husband. A weak Jupiter delays
marriage. When Jupiter is conjunct with or opposed to the Sun, Saturn, Rahu, or
Ketu, the marriage of those with Gemini or Virgo ascendants ends in a divorce.
These planetary configurations create obstacles to marriage in general.
Jupiter makes its natives cooperative, active, ambitious, disciplined, and pure
in behavior. They believe in simple living and high thinking.
Jupiter rules over the liver, and the region from the waist to the thighs.
Jupiter is the Lord of those born on day 3, 12, 21, and 30 of any month, or
those whose name or destiny number comes to 3. Those born on the twelfth day
of any month are the most fortunate.
NUMBER 3
Psychic Number 3
Three is the psychic number of those born on day 3, 12, 21, or 30 of any month.
As a member of the family of odd numbers, 3 is a dynamic number. It makes
its natives independent, bold, active, hard working, dependable, popular,
disciplined, self-confident, and initiators.
Psychic number 3 people are very ambitious. They like to get ahead in the
world. They want to do something great with their life so they are remembered
by posterity. In this way, they are very future-conscious people.
At the beginning of their career, which they start quite early in life, they have
to struggle a lot. This struggle, however, is very beneficial for their growth and
development and makes them shine.
They do not like to be subordinates, nor do they like minor jobs. They think
about big projects and try to create jobs for themselves in which they are their
own boss.
They are scientists of life. They spend their energy finding practical solutions
for making life more colorful, more joyful, and more enjoyable. They are very
conscious of their responsibility in this area. With their keen sense of
observation and logic, they struggle with an open mind and acquire a good
understanding about life. Because they are well versed in the art of conversation
and can express themselves clearly, they are good advisors, teachers, orators,
and writers.
They are flexible in their ideas and freely adopt what is beneficial from all
religious practices. Although they do not commit themselves to any conventional
religion, they are religious at heart. They believe in the truth, its practical
application, and its beautiful expression in life.
They love success and wish to be successful in everything they do. They also
like to be appreciated every step of the way. Like number 1 people, they need a
lot of attention, and for that they learn many tricks, such as the art of
conversation, expressing themselves through gestures and postures, and making
jokes and puns.
They are hardworking throughout their life and keep themselves busy with
something or other all the time. Even if they feel compelled to rest, they are
restless and just cannot relax. They can catnap between jobs; that’s why they can
work on many projects simultaneously. When one task becomes tiresome, they
switch to another. In this way, they do many things and earn through many
sources. They are extremely conscious in carrying out their duties and believe in
performing them as their yoga. They believe in the axiom, “Devotion to duty is
divine.”
They are successful in the execution of any job they undertake and usually
finish what they start. This gives them self-confidence, which is the keyword of
their life.
They are true to their word and honor their commitments. This makes them
dependable.
They love order and discipline. They obey the orders of those whom they
respect and think to be their superiors. They wish that those younger and
subordinate to them do likewise. This sometimes creates problems, because they
become dictatorial and tyrannical at home with their dependents.
They are fortunate in that they receive love, affection, help, and guidance
from elderly people, relatives, and those well-placed in society.
They are strongly built, healthy, and full of stamina. They make friends easily
and have a wide circle of acquaintances.
They are always optimistic, creative, cheerful, inspiring, and full of humor.
Sometimes they create problems for themselves by making fun of people who do
not appreciate their humor. These people easily become their critics and
enemies. Their short-tempered and outspoken behavior often offends people and
slowly they develop a circle of critics (much smaller than their circle of friends
and admirers). Nevertheless, they manage to keep a smile and not concern
themselves with their opponents.
They are always surrounded by members of the opposite sex. A weakness for
sex is one of their problems. However, they are selective and engage in refined
relationships that are beneficial to them. They may have physical relationships
with mates having psychic numbers of 1, 3, 6, or 9, even if they do not bind
themselves in matrimonial ties. But generally, they are chaste and pure. They
honor their marital vows and are loyal to their partners, even though they do not
respect them and sometimes misbehave with them. They love their kith and kin
and are strongly attached to family; they bear with pleasure the hardships
required of them to meet family obligations. They are loyal and devoted to their
parents. They sacrifice their personal comforts to keep an atmosphere of love
and harmony in their family. Even if there are deficiencies in their partners, they
stand by their side to help them. Their life partners are usually attractive, chaste,
loyal, and give them their full support.
They are universal helpers and help all, even their enemies, but only when
asked. They are devoted to all good causes and offer their help immediately,
without bargaining.
They are fond of, and benefit from, traveling. They are privileged to meet
celebrities of their time from many fields. They love to ride horses.
Their main weaknesses are over-ambitiousness, excessive optimism, and
extravagance; they exaggerate the truth and are short-tempered, uncontrollably
dictatorial, jealous, and prideful.
Psychic number 3 people born on the third of any month are more prone to
struggle in life, yet their struggles are beneficial and in the end bring success.
Those born on the twelfth of any month have more magnetism and charisma
than other psychic number 3 people. They are more fortunate, have to struggle
less. They get help and cooperation from friends and those in authority, and
become successful people who started from nothing. Those born on the twentyfirst of any month have a sadness in their life. They are not as successful as other
psychic 3s because of the influence of the digit 2. Those born on the thirtieth are,
because of the 0, the most unfortunate of psychic 3 people; they struggle the
most.
Precautions for Psychic Number 3 People
They should avoid unnecessary discussions.
They should avoid the company of low people.
They should try to control their tempers and eat and drink in silver pots.
They should spend money carefully. Money comes to them easily and from
many sources, but it also goes out easily for objects of decoration and
comforts, which creates a financial imbalance.
They should try to save money for their future.
They should avoid overeating and the use of fats and hot spices. Jupiter, the
Lord of number 3 people, rules over the liver. Since they work with the
energy of liver, they should avoid foods that are hard on it. Regular use of
fenugreek seeds, anise seeds, coconut powder, almonds, black pepper, and
honey with a pinch of saffron can be helpful.
They should avoid boasting about their achievements.
They should control their anger.
They should control their passions and sensuality.
They should avoid being overly optimistic and ambitious.
They should not lose heart with little failures and be patient.
They should control their dictatorial attitudes at home and allow other
members of the family their freedom.
They should respect their life partners.
They are susceptible to skin diseases. If they massage themselves regularly
with oil, they prevent skin troubles. They should also avoid acid and gasproducing foods and avoid eating when they are not hungry. (Often they do
so to oblige others and keep them company.)
They should avoid being proud.
They should avoid earning money by improper means.
They should undertake journeys when they feel that the time for them is not
favorable where they are.
They should learn to say no because their habit of saying yes to everything
creates problems. Those who depend on them start expecting things and
because yes means nothing to them, this causes disappointment.
They should relax and avoid taking on more work and responsibilities than
they can handle, which causes them stress.
Destiny Number 3
Three is not good as a destiny number. It makes people work hard; they overload
themselves and develop stresses and strains. It also creates disorder in their life.
But as destiny number 3 people are strongly built and full of stamina, they can
bear unbelievable pressures.
A weakness for sex brings them opposition from family members and their
actions are challenged. However, they are lucky and are able to escape this
opposition.
Their outspoken and critical nature creates problems for them.
Their friends betray them.
They are not benefited by their brothers.
They meet failure in matters of love and sometimes earn a bad reputation.
Their selfishness hampers their growth and development.
Their boasting nature makes people turn away.
Their pride makes them miss many opportunities to excel in life.
Their extravagance creates financial crises.
On the other hand, they are fortunate and their luck saves them from all
problems, including accidents. They get money whenever they need it, and they
are able to materialize their dreams. They are born leaders, easily rise in politics,
and achieve good posts in the government.
They start as an ordinary person and rise to great heights in their careers by
hard work, good fortune, a well-developed sense of responsibility, and conscious
planning.
They avoid entering into disputes and sometimes have to spend money out of
their pocket to repay agitated friends and family members, victims either of their
overly enthusiastic planning or their change of plans at the last moment.
Destiny number 3 people are blessed by a good family life. Their life partners
are supportive and assume domestic responsibilities giving them time to devote
to a good and pious cause. Their life partners have to share and serve their many
friends and acquaintances, many of whom are poor people, in need of social help
and care.
They are warm-hearted, generous, fair, trustworthy, and make money through
their magnetic personality and charming behavior.
They find friends and helpers everywhere.
They love to act like priests and do religious work; they love chanting.
They are lovers of ancient history and politics.
They earn through many sources and sometimes use the wrong means to earn
money. But they spend it freely on others and put their money to good use,
buying comforts and decorations.
They are blessed with creativity, good imagination, good intuition, and the
power of clear expression, both written and oral. However, they do not get name,
fame, and money in the early part of their life, when they desire it the most. It
comes to them later, when they have matured to a ripe age.
They love tasty foods and like to have comfortable houses, equipped with all
facilities.
They enjoy a deep sleep and do not sleep for a very long period of time.
They believe in peace and happiness for all.
They are best suited for publishing, business, publicity, higher education,
research, travel and tourism, and the import-export business. They can also work
as jewelers or lawyers. They can teach philosophy which is their favorite subject.
They can also serve religious and philanthropic organizations.
Name Number 3
Three is good as a name number. The name number is important for social
relationships; society knows and remembers a person by his or her name. Three
as a name number brings humor, popularity, and a willingness to help. It brings
good fortune, if it is in harmony with the destiny number. If it is in harmony with
the psychic number, it brings fame and makes one memorable. People having 3
as their name number are bold, trustworthy, self-disciplined, and tolerant; they
make good storytellers and eloquent speakers. If in harmony with both the
psychic and destiny number, name number of 3 gives the quality of leadership.
On the one hand, it brings name number 3s a high position and, on the other, it
brings situations in which they have to struggle a lot for the existence of their
ideas and ideals. They become jacks-of-all-trades and act like masters of all
trades.
BALANCING INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL
ENVIRONMENTS
By observing fasts, using the proper spices and gem powders, meditatingon the
mantras, and using the yantras, one can balance the internal environment.
Balancing the external environment is possible by choosing the right time for
activities (in the ascending cycle or descending cycle), selecting good friends
(finding compatible numbers), and starting a job at the appropriate time
(observing weak period and strong periods). Balance is achieved by working
with the energy flow that is already available, as described in the sections that
follow. The information that follows applies to people with psychic number 3.
Weak Periods
The months of October and November are not favorable. During this period,
they should avoid starting new projects or undertaking long journeys.
Strong Periods
The periods between February 19 and March 20 and between November 21 and
December 20 are the most favorable. All new projects should be started during
these times. Travel during these periods brings long-lasting benefits.
Good Dates
Days 3, 12, 21, and 30 of any month are good; days 6, 9, 15, 18, 24, and 27 of
any month are also favorable.
Good Days
Thursday is the best day for number 3 people, because it is ruled by Jupiter. It is
a day of good news and gains. In addition to Thursday, Monday and Wednesday
are also good for financial gain.
Favorable Colors
Yellow is the most favorable color for number 3 people. In their environments,
work and relaxation, they should use yellow curtains, pillow covers, and
bedsheets. A yellow handkerchief is also very helpful for removing stress. They
can also use pink, blue, or light purple.
Precious Stones
Yellow sapphire and yellow topaz are their gems. These gems should be bought
and given to the jeweler on a Thursday; a ring or pendant with an open-back
setting should also be made by the jeweler on a Thursday. The ring or pendant
should be picked up from the jeweler on a Thursday, and worn after the proper
rituals have been performed. The forefinger of the right hand, the Jupiter finger,
is best suited for the ring; the pendant could be worn around the neck with a
chain or yellow string. The setting for the ring or the pendant and its chain
should be made of gold.
They should take yellow sapphire powder to help their bodies heal
electrochemically.
Meditation
Number 3 people should meditate on Vishnu, who has four arms, is sky blue in
color, and sits on his favorite snake shasha. With one arm he blesses, in the other
he holds a chakra, in his third hand is a lotus, and in his fourth hand he holds a
club. His face has a calming smile.
Deity
Number 3s are supposed to worship the preservation aspect of the Supreme
Lord, known as Vishnu in the Hindu tradition.
Mantra
Japa
1
(repetition) of the mantra of any planet should be completed within the
ascending cycle of the moon and should be repeated the prescribed number of
times.
AUM BRIM BRAHASPATAYE NAMAH—AUM
Number 3s should repeat the above mantra 19,000 times within the ascending
cycle of the moon.
Yantra for Jupiter
2
Health and Diseases
Number 3 people are susceptible to the following problems related to wind or air
(vata dosha) in the Ayurvedic system:
Frail nerves. According to Ayurveda, the nervous system is related to the
humor of wind, the air element. Nerve function is related to the principle of
activity and movement; the humor of wind is the only active principle out
of the three body humors (bile and mucus are immobile). A massage with
an oil containing fenugreek seeds that have been cooked in a little vinegar
can be very helpful for this condition. Sesame oil produces the greatest
benefit.
Skin problems. As a result of disturbance in the humor of wind (vayu), the
body feels dry. This dryness creates skin problems of all kind. The use of
garlic, ginger, asafetida, and fenugreek seeds in food, and the avoidance of
indigestion, acidity, and constipation can help calm the aggravated humor
of wind. The use of gram flour (chickpea flour) in bread, and the ingestion
of carrots or carrot juice, can help cure skin diseases. Massages with oil are
also very helpful. Excess use of garlic, ginger, and asafetida can cause
dryness.
Worrying and uneasiness of mind. Meditation, breathing exercises, deep
and slow breathing, morning and evening walks along the side of a flowing
river, reading scriptures, chanting the mantra, and the singing hymns,
bhajans, can help.
Increase in sexual urge, lethargy of private organ (in males). By
maintaining a healthy diet (not too oily or greasy), by regular use of date
milk (a mixture of milk and mashed dates that has been boiled and topped
with a pinch of saffron), and by oil massage, the lethargy of the male organ
can be helped. To balance the sexual urge, one has to divert one’s attention
to some other interesting subject. This subject can be partially related to
sex, but it should bring the energy into the higher chakras. Sexual energy
can be diverted and channeled in other directions so as to function as a
creative force.
Arthritis. This is another disease created by the aggravated humor of wind.
A controlled, gas-free diet, along with regular massage done with
Mahanarayan oil or Wintergreen oil (to which eucalyptus oil and mint oils
have been mixed in equal proportions) can help. Also, swallowing small,
round balls of beeswax (the size of a garbanzo bean) for forty consecutive
days at the beginning of the winter season is very beneficial.
Impurity of the blood. Fasting on herbal teas and blood-purifying fruit
juices can help this problem. A change in diet to vegetarianism, use of
alkaline foods, use of sprouts, regular morning walks, breathing exercises,
and meditation can also cure impurities of the blood.
Heart troubles. Wearing Rudraksha beads (seeds from a tree that is thought
to be holy) in the form of a necklace or armband can help the heart. Also
eating rose petal jam (known as Gulkand), injesting powdered pearls mixed
with cream or honey (and mixed with the ring finger), and avoiding fats and
hot spicy foods can help the heart. Purification of the abdominal tract,
lungs, and chest cavity can be good; breathing exercises, vegetarian diets,
alkaline foods, meditation, and listening to relaxing music can help also.
Diabetes. The use of fenugreek seeds (both as tea and as a spice in all
foods), breathing exercises, morning walks, gem remedies,
3 and a change in
food and daily life habits can all help this condition.
Poisoning, Heat, Eruptions, Jaundice, and Paralysis These are other
ailments for which number 3s should take precautions after they pass thirtyfive. Frequent use of yellow sapphire powder protects them from many
diseases. This powder should be mixed in a teaspoon of honey or cream
with the ring finger of the right hand and taken orally with the same finger.
Fasting
Number 3 people can obtain benefits if on Thursdays they do the following: fast;
offer homage to Jupiter; abstain from eating bananas; abstain from (1) doing
laundry, (2) shaving, (3) using cumin seeds, and (4) using oil for massage and in
foods (ghee and butter can be used in foods). Also, if on the full moon day they
fast and observe a vow of silence, and at night rather than sleep they chant
mantras and meditate, they can receive great help during these 24 hours. Hindus
can recite Vishnu’s mantra and the Vishnu Sahasranam chant. To follow these
practices on every full moon brings good luck and the satisfaction of all desires.
Hindus can also combine this with worship of Satya Narayan and listen to the
katha
4 of Shri Satya Narayan.
Friendship
Men and women born on day 1, 3, 6, 9, 12, 15, 18, 21, 24, or 27 of any month
make suitable friends for 3s. Numbers 5 and 7 are also friendly toward them.
Romance
Men or women born between February 19 and March 21 or between November
21 and December 21, with a psychic number of 3, 5, or 9, are perfect for
romance and marriage. People with the psychic numbers of 1, 2, 6, and 7 who
are born during these periods can be chosen when the above numbers are not
available. However, Is or 7s should be selected by women, and 2s or 6s by men.
Good Years in Life
The 3rd year, the 12th, 21st, 30th, 33rd, 36th, 48th, 57th, 66th, and 75th are good
years. Any other year divisible by three can also be beneficial.
NUMBER 3 PEOPLE IN RELATIONSHIP
The information given below is based upon a comparison of psychic number 3s
to other psychic numbers. It can also be used to compare destiny 3s to other
destiny numbers, and name 3s to other name numbers. (The comparisons are
based upon like categories.)
Number 3 and Number 1
Number 3 and number 1 are good friends (as explained on page 35). Threes are
able to inspire and bring out all the good qualities in 1s. Ruled by the Sun, 1s
make good students of 3s and are supportive of them. Ruled by Jupiter, 3s are
good advisers, like good prime ministers, and 1s listen to them. Natives with
both numbers are ambitious and want to excel in life. Both can express their
ideas forcefully and are hard workers, having extra amounts of energy and
stamina. Both are authoritative and disciplinarians. They form an ideal pair, if
the 1 is a man and the 3 a woman. Threes should select 1s for any kind of
relationship. Although 1s have to work for 3s, the relationship is mutually
beneficial.
Number 3 and Number 2
The number 2, being an even number, is static; the number 3, being an odd
number, dynamic. The combination becomes dynamic. Number 3 people
understand 2s very well and can help them under all circumstances. Although 2
is a number of change, number 3 people are adjustable and flexible. Both 3s and
2s are ruled by benefic planets.
Threes are teachers for 2s; they help them grow and develop and bring success
into their life. Their relationship is mutually beneficial, and 3s can select 2s for
marriage, friendship, or business partnership. If 2s select 3s, all projects will be
completed and desires fulfilled. Threes will have to work for 2s, as 2s are
Queens and 3s Prime Ministers. While hard work for 3s is necessary and natural,
2s are delicate and fragile. So 3s keep busy and provide energy to 2s.
Number 3 and Number 3
Unlike any other combination, two 3s are beneficial. As we have stated earlier,
when two like numbers come together, they relax and neutralize each other. In
this case, it does not happen. They both work hard and try to come up in the
world. Threes are universal helpers, who help all numbers when asked. In
business partnership, two number 3s do not make big money, but they work
cooperatively. In the end they are successful because they have practical natures
and good organizing abilities. So 3s are good for each other in friendship,
marriage, or business partnership. Number 3s act like boatmen, taking all
numbers across the river of difficulties.
Number 3 and Number 4
The number 4, ruled by Rahu (the north node of Moon), is not a friend to the
number 3. Although number 3 people are not benefited by 4s, the reverse is true
because 3s are ruled by Jupiter. If they enter into a business partnership, 3s
suffer losses but 4s benefit. As friends, 3s are helpful and understanding to 4s; 4s
gain strength by following the advice of 3s. The relationship is not harmful to a
3, if the 3 is a man and the 4 a woman. But if reversed, the marriage will not be
very successful. This is because 4s are characterized by sudden changes and
secrecy, which is not tolerated by number 3 women.
Number 3 and Number 5
The numbers 3 and 5 are both odd and dynamic. Since 5s are ruled by Mercury,
both numbers are ruled by benefic planets. Mercury and Jupiter are not friends,
although Jupiter, being a neutral universal helper, helps 5s. Number 3s are good
advisers and friends. Since 5s are princes and entertainers, and 3s are also happy
numbers, they make good company. Neither follow a traditional religion; they
are free thinkers. So they help each other. Because of their restless nature, 5s are
not ideal business or marriage partners for 3s. However, since 5s are merchants,
3s can learn about business from them. Marriage between a 5 and a 3 can be
beneficial if 3 is the man and 5 the woman, but the reverse is not successful.
Number 3 and Number 6
The number 6 is ruled by Venus, “the teacher of demons.” (The word demons
here means our pleasure-seeking nature.) Psychic number 3 people are
disciplinarians and 6s are law breakers—they are opposites. But as numbers,
they are harmonious. Number 3s are attracted by 6s. In the company of 6s, 3s
can explore unexplored parts of their own personality and enjoy life. Number 6
people, being slow, are beneficial to fast number 3 people and make them relax
and enjoy life and its luxuries. In friendship, a 3 and a 6 are mutually beneficial;
a 6 benefits from following a 3s advice. Threes develop more spiritual awareness
in the company of 6s, who guide them toward secret and occult sciences. A 3
enjoys a good married life with a 6, if the 3 is a man and the 6 a woman.
However, the reverse combination is not ideal. In business partnerships, 3s and
6s are mutually beneficial.
Number 3 and Number 7
Number 7 is ruled by Ketu, an unfriendly planet to Jupiter, but Jupiter has a
neutral attitude toward Ketu. They are both odd and dynamic numbers. Since a 7
is also a kind of teacher, one who teaches practical wisdom, both numbers are
independent thinkers. However, 3s help 7s solve their problems. Number 7s are
friendly, and have a philosophical outlook. Threes and 7s do not think the same
way or always agree with each other; but when they undertake a project of
common interest, they work together very well. Both have the gift of intuition,
both are interested in reforms, both are writers. As friends and business partners
they can be very helpful to each other. In marriage, if a 3 is the man and a 7 the
woman, the relationship will work very well. With the opposite combination, the
woman will face difficulties in the early years, but later on the marriage will
work.
Number 3 and Number 8
The number 8 is ruled by Saturn, and Jupiter and Saturn have a neutral
relationship. Eight is a number of struggle; it works for everything by itself and
does not seek help. So 3s are not able to help 8s. Although 8s are powerful and
succeed after much necessary effort and struggle, they do not enjoy the benefits
of marital life for long periods of time. In short, 3s should not select 8s for
marriage. Threes make 8s fortunate by giving them advice and are generally
beneficial for 8s. However, 8s are not very beneficial for 3s, either in business
partnership or as a life partner.
Number 3 and Number 9
Since the number 9 is ruled by Mars, a friend of Jupiter, the numbers 3 and 9 are
friendly. Number three is lucky for 9, and 9 is beneficial to 3. Nine natives have
extraordinary organizational abilities and are also hard workers. Both numbers
make a good team and work hard to gain success in life. They are mutually
beneficial. Number 3s can, without any problem, choose 9s for friendship,
marriage, or business partnership. Threes do not earn much money in the
business partnership, but they never suffer a loss. Number 9s are helped by the
good advice of 3s, who in turn benefit because the 9s arrange and organize
everything for them. Number 9s promote and help the growth and success of 3s.
Rahu and Number 4
Rahu is the ruling planet of people born on day 4, 13, 22, or 31 of any month, or
whose destiny or name number adds up to 4. The qualities of Rahu described
below are most clearly visible in people who have 4 as a psychic number.
Rahu and Ketu, the two nodes of the Moon, reflect the basic bipolar nature of
man. They do not exist as material entities like the other seven planets. They
each represent a point where the plane of the Moon’s orbit around our planet
intersects with the plane of the ecliptic of the zodiac constellations. These nodes
are important to astrologers, astronomers, and numerologists because they
belong to the Moon, whose influence on human emotions is universally
accepted. It is only at the nodes that the path of the Moon intersects the path of
other planets. These nodal points are not fixed points in outerspace, but are more
“backwards” that is, they are always retrograde and never direct. Because in
ancient times, with the help of these nodes, exact dates of the solar and lunar
eclipse could be determined by astrologers and astronomers, the nodes became
very significant and were each given the status of “half-planet.” Also, as they are
not real entities, their influence varies with their location in every native’s chart.
Since their influence creates a wide range of emotional behavior, knowledge of
them becomes necessary.
Rahu, the north node of Moon, is an active and disruptive force which works
mainly on the mental level. It is supposed to be a malefic planet—dynamic in
nature, low in vibration, hedonistic, and eternally dissatisfied. It makes its
natives lazy and lethargic, dull, illogical, and pleasure-seeking. They become
revolutionaries, conspirators, spies, and detectives. Rahu brings to its natives
confusion, ignorance, phobias, enmity, and big plans that need a long time to
accomplish. It makes them work hard and perform bad karmas.
The favorable aspect of Rahu gives talents for painting, writing, and editing. It
brings fame and success, physical attractiveness and beauty. It also makes its
natives intelligent, bold, and secretive. If they are interested in politics, Rahu
makes them successful, but often they occupy seats in the opposition. Rahu gives
its natives an angle of vision through which they also see the unseen side of all
truth in existence. When Rahu is conjunct with Jupiter or Venus, it gives its
natives access to secret sciences, Tantra, etc.
Rahu is tamasic (inert) in nature and influences physical strength, bones, fat,
tissues, and the skin.
Rahu makes its natives travel to foreign lands. It also rules over sailors.
The unfavorable aspect of Rahu destroys one’s power of discrimination and
one’s sensitivity. It makes its natives egotistic, selfish, pessimistic, dull,
aggressive, and causes them to suffer imprisonment or go underground. It bring
difficulties, opposition, and humiliation, and gives sufferings, which cannot be
diagnosed or cured. It also gives its natives suicidal tendencies.
Rahu rules the zodiac sign Virgo, which is also ruled by Mercury. It is exalted
in Taurus (according to some, in Gemini); Scorpio (according to some,
Sagittarius) is its sign of fall. Friendly zodiac signs of Rahu are Gemini, Virgo,
Sagittarius, and Pisces; enemy signs are Cancer and Leo. It brings better results
in Taurus and Libra. The houses good for Rahu are three, six, eight, nine, ten,
and eleven. Dark or smoky blue is its color, and the wind is its element.
Astrologers compare Rahu with smoke, which has no definite nature or shape
of its own but when present can obscure every other thing. People under its
influence get easily irritated, use obscene language, lose control over their
nerves, and become disruptive.
Apart from all of its good and bad points, Rahu is a great energy force that
gives its natives a distinctive character. It also gives them a unique perspective
of the world, which is very healthy for the growth of human consciousness at
large. Rahu gives courage, patience, and intelligence, which number 4 people
use to help the downtrodden to raise their voices against the privileged few.
NUMBER 4
Psychic Number 4
Fouris the psychic number of those born on day 4, 13, 22, or 31 of anymonth. Of
these, number 4s born on the thirty-first are the most fortunate.
The number 4 is ruled by Rahu, which is always changing—never fixed,
always retrograde, never direct. The influence of Rahu introduces sudden
changes into the lives of psychic number 4 people; they have to constantly face
ups-and-downs. Because they undergo those changes so suddenly, they develop
a doubting nature and cannot trust easily. Because of their uncertainty, they have
to consult and act on the advice of others throughout their lives. This also
happens because Rahu weakens the power to discriminate between right and
wrong and the power of right judgment, which gives one a decisive nature.
Their doubting nature makes psychic number 4s stubborn and obstinate.
Because Rahu gives them boldness, courage, and patience, they can undergo
pain and suffering without anxiety. They take sudden changes, ups-and-downs,
and sufferings easily without getting impatient. They face their opposition
boldly.
Whether in an ordinary discussion or a serious debate, they always support the
underdog. If they are able to work in government, they do not sit with the ruling
party but prefer to sit on the opposition benches.
Extremists, they are either on the top or bottom—they do not like to be
mediocre or belong to the middle class.
They have to struggle for their growth and development and have to face
obstacles constantly in any job they do, whether small or great.
They have to face criticism and opposition throughout their lifetime.
Because their viewpoint always differs from that of other people, and they
favor the underdog in conversations, they create problems for themselves and
also generate secret enemies. Their intentions, however, are fair and, by nature,
they are not quarrelsome.
They are reliable, patient friends, who can adjust themselves to all conditions.
However, because they have a quickly changing nature—sometimes they are
sweet and gentle, and sometimes rough and rustic—they often annoy their kith
and kin. If their friends can understand them and forego their temperamental
behavior, they find them to be very helpful, large hearted, practical people,
having brilliant ideas. They are systematic and efficient, especially in the
handling of big ventures and plans.
They are helpful to society and, by their unconventional and free-thinking
manner, they are able to introduce great reforms into society that benefit the poor
and the aggrieved.
They are interested in reforms of all kinds—environmental, social, communal,
and domestic. This interest can lead them into politics or to spiritual
organizations, where they can introduce reforms and become leaders of their
own orders.
They are rebellious by nature and instinctively rebel against rules and
regulations. They do not feel hesitation in breaking the law. Whenever they rebel
against constitutional authorities, they become popular and famous. However,
they are seldom successful in the worldly or material field, even though they
have a pragmatic approach.
They love conspiracy and sometimes live with conspirators during their youth.
Because of their tendency to differ with existing norms, they join up with
anarchists, terrorists, or lawbreakers. However, they also fear that people will
misunderstand them and will take them to be conspirators. This makes them feel
lonely and deserted.
They are not attached to the concept of accumulating wealth. Whenever they
get money, they spend it lavishly. Their way of living luxuriously and spending
freely gives people the impression that they are rich. Their large heartedness
makes them give money to the needy and poor, which makes their friends and
relatives think that they are very rich when, in fact, they are not.
They are very good critics of art. They love to visit art exhibitions, attend
concerts or theaters, or see exhibits of ancient relics. They enjoy evaluating these
events critically but their thoughts are not very clear.
They have no clear picture of life in their mind, and so they remain—along
with others who live with or are associated with them—in darkness. This creates
problems in their family life and friendships. This habit of not having a clear
picture of life is the result of having events and obstacles come into their paths
suddenly, so they are not able to achieve what they want.
They love to create balance and order in their life and want things done in a
systematic way. If they are supported by harmonious numbers, they can make
progress by leaps and bounds, acquire riches, and become famous. This is
because they are practical planners, hard workers, strong willed, and are not
afraid of facing opposition and challenges.
Their friendship is lifelong although they have very few real friends in their
life. They always feel that they have been misunderstood by people.
They are self-made people and extremely secretive by nature. They do not
disclose their secrets, even to those near and dear to them. This gives them heart
problems, but they like to feel lonely and bear all their suffering alone.
They are extremely selfish and can go to any extreme to fulfill their selfish
motives, even if it means harming somebody.
They make false promises and create critics, opponents, and enemies
throughout the course of their life.
They are good conversationalists and are very polite and gentle in dealing
with members of opposite sex. They are very sensual and, if male, have an
excellent sex drive. They have many love affairs and are always unsuccessful in
matters of love. The devil of sudden change upsets their marriage plans.
Although the doubt and uncertainty of their character plays an important role in
this, it is the element of sudden change that leads them to catastrophe.
A psychic number 4 woman is deeply affectionate in her dealings with her
husband, friends of her husband, and other male members of the family. She is
romantic and gentle by nature. She acts responsibly and takes care of her
husband and his friends, her parents, and her inlaws. She is painstaking, prudent,
flexible, and reserved by nature. She likes to lead an independent life and does
not like to be dictated to by others. She is advised not to have prolonged
relationships of any kind with psychic number 4s, 8s, or 9s. Psychic number 1, 3,
5, and 6 people are more suitable, sympathetic and harmonious.
Apart from all the opposition and criticism they receive and their failures and
sufferings, psychic number 4 people achieve rewards and recognition in the
latter part of their lives. They also benefit from the inheritance of property.
Precautions for Psychic Number 4s
They should develop an uncritical nature and be more trusting. If possible,
they should remember the famous saying of Buddha: “Doubt everything—
and then doubt the doubt.” They should not take their doubts for granted
and let good opportunities slip from their hands.
They should keep cool. Drinking water from a silver goblet and eating food
from a silver plate helps to reduce their anger, which is their greatest
enemy.
They should learn to appreciate others.
They should reduce their selfishness and perform selfless service.
They should avoid spending money unnecessarily and save for their old age
and time of need.
They should cultivate the habit of deciding things quickly and
independently.
They should restrain from censuring others.
They should neither give others false hope nor make false promises. They
should become straightforward and learn to say no when they cannot do
something for others, instead of saying yes and then not acting.
They should not trust blindly.
They should speak less and in more melodious tones.
They should avoid loneliness and isolation.
They should avoid traveling without a purpose.
They should meditate and do exercises to still their mind, otherwise they
suffer from weakness of memory in old age.
Number 4s can sometimes have a Kundalini experience. They should not be
disturbed if this should happen, and they should not seek medical advice. If left
undisturbed, they will regain their normal state of consciousness without any
problems.
Those number 4 people whose destiny number is 9 should avoid working with
machines.
Note About People Born on Day 13 or 22 of any Month
Number 13
Number 4 people born on the thirteenth day of any month should keep in mind
that they are a combination of 1, which is ruled by the Sun, and 3, which is ruled
by Jupiter. In 13, the Sun afflicts Jupiter, which creates an easily irritable nature.
But it also gives the qualities found in number 1 people (since 13 is a member of
the series of 10, which is influenced by 1). The Sun’s affliction with Jupiter
makes things happen fast. If these people find supporting friends, they can leave
their sadness, pessimism, and irritability behind, so as to make their mark in life.
They should take the powder of hessonite (gomed pishthi) frequently, with
cream or honey. They should also eat and drink from silver utensils.
Usually in the West, 13 is regarded as an ominous and unlucky number.
Although the root of this belief can be traced to an early European myth, it was
not until much later, after the seventeenth century, that this number became
considered unlucky.
In China also, 13 was regarded as a number of difficulties. In the ancient
religion of Mexico, however, it was a most auspicious number—it symbolized
the Sun, the positive, male energy.
In the Cabala, 13 is not regarded as unlucky. In the second book of Moses,
one can read of the 13 attributes of God (Exodus 34:6-7). Thirteen is not an
unlucky number in India, but because of British influence some people speak of
13 as an ominous number.
In numerology, 13 is not an unlucky or ominous number. It is a number of
practical, alert, and dependable people. Those born on this date are people who
can easily go to the depth of matters; they can be very successful in scientific
research or occult sciences like Tantra. Their interests in religion and philosophy
can bring them great successes and siddhis (powers that are thought to be
supernatural).
Number 22
Psychic number 4s born on day 22 of any month are more strongly influenced by
the number 2, yet they carry all the qualities of number 4. They become very
obstinate and are regarded as difficult people by their friends and relatives.
People with this number have to suffer separation from their families and
sometimes, in the case of men, a remarriage.
Number 22 is believed to be a mystical number in some circles. Number 22
people are specialists. They execute their jobs efficiently. They are practical and
systematic. They have to struggle hard, because they do not get much support
from their colleagues, partners, relatives, and family members. People with this
number become very successful in politics. In a business, they can only excel
when their partners are supportive. They should learn techniques to relax their
mind and use the powder of hessonite (gomed pishthi) to pacify the effect of
Rahu. With the exception of marital problems, they are able to overcome their
difficulties and obstacles and achieve success.
Destiny Number 4
Number 4 is not very good as a destiny number. When people have 4 as a
psychic number, it is possible for them to train themselves to compromise with
the hardships brought on by the sudden changes in their lives. But when people
have 4 as a destiny number, these sudden changes come and destroy the
masterplan of their lives—life becomes exhausting and disgusting. Even if they
have all the comforts and luxuries of life, they always feel that something is
missing.
They often get chances to move ahead, but their doubting nature makes them
suspicious and they miss out on these chances.
They are burdened by heavy responsibilities and duties and have no choice
other than to carry them out. They have enough stamina and strength, but their
labor is not rewarded. Not only do they not get proper appreciation for their
work, but they have to face opposition and criticism. This makes them
suspicious and overly cautious; it forces them to isolate themselves and feel sad
and lonely.
Rahu gives them dissatisfaction. Destiny number 4 people never feel satisfied
with their jobs and always try to find better ones. Thus they change their
profession very frequently and become like rolling stones.
Because of the influence of Rahu, they are always disturbed by secret and
unseen enemies. These enemies are drawn to them because of their
unconventional nature, positive views, critical yet unclear minds, and because
they do not follow the existing customs or norms.
Because of the backward movement of Rahu, they become restless and
impatient. They cannot bear delays in their work, but their work always has
delays. (Rahu, like Saturn, creates obstacles and delays.) They also have delays
in their good luck.
Their family life is not good. Their selfish, doubting, and secretive nature
destroys it. They cannot decide things quickly.
In old age, their memory gets weak.
If destiny number 4 people are born on a Saturday and their psychic numbers
are 4 or 8, all of the characteristics just listed become more prominent.
They have multiple sources for earning money, but it is easily spent. If they do
not consciously watch out for extravagance, they have to work hard in their old
age to make ends meet.
Name Number 4
Although psychic or destiny number 1 people and psychic number 3 people can
have 4 as their name number, generally number 4 is not a good name number.
Numbers 1 and 3 are optimistic, idealistic, and devoted to human welfare.
Number 4 makes them cautious and suspicious. It does not create a wide circle
of trustworthy friends. In matters of business, it also does not bring much
success. If possible, natives having number 4 as a name number should change it
to a number that is harmonious with their psychic number—such as 1, 3, or 6.
This will help them have better relationships with their colleagues and protect
them from their secret enemies.
BALANCING INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL
ENVIRONMENTS
By observing fasts, using the proper spices and gem powders, meditatingon the
mantras, and using the yantras, one can balance the internal environment.
Balancing the external environment is possible by choosing the right time for
activities (in the ascending cycle or descending cycle), selecting good friends
(finding compatible numbers), and starting a job at the appropriate time
(observing weak period and strong periods). Balance is achieved by working
with the energy flow that is already available, as described in the sections that
follow. The information that follows applies to people with psychic number 4.
Weak Periods
October, November, and December are generally not favorable months for
number 4 people. During this period their sadness increases. They face many
obstacles in their work; they feel physically weak, less enthusiastic, lazy; they
have losses and psychological problems.
Strong Periods
The period between March 21 to April 28 and between July 10 to August 20 is
favorable for number 4 people. They should make good use of these times—start
new jobs, execute new plans, finish their pending jobs, and plan for the future.
Good Dates
Days 4, 13, 22, and 31 are generally considered good dates. If they fall on a
Monday, days 1, 3, 5, 12, 14, 19, or 21 are also favorable.
Good Days
Saturday, Sunday, and Monday are good days for number 4 people. If those days
fall on favorable dates, they give them additional strength.
Favorable Colors
Blue, grey, khaki, and all shining colors are good for number 4 people. If they
keep these colors around, they draw good energy from them.
Precious Stones
Hessonite is the stone of number 4 people. It should be used in a ring or as a
pendant, set in a mixture of five metals.
1
They should use hessonite powder to help their bodies heal electrochemically.
Meditation
They should meditate on Lord Ganesha, the obstacle remover, and chant the
Ganesha mantra:
GAJANANAM BHUTGANADI SEVITAM
KAPITHYA JAMBO PHALCHARU BHAKSHANAM
UMA SUTAM SHOKVINASH KARAKAM
NAMAMI VIGHNESHWAR PADPANKAJAM
Deity
Number 4s are supposed to worship Ganesha, who is seated on a throne of gold.
He has four arms and the head of an elephant. With one hand he blesses, with the
other he holds a hatchet to control the elephant of desires. In his third hand is a
lasso, and in his fourth hand he holds his favorite sweet, Laddu.
Mantra
Japa
2
(repetition) of the mantra of any planet should be completed within the
ascending cycle of the moon and should be repeated the prescribed number of
times.
Whenever 4s experience obstacles and monetary problems, they should do the
Ganesha mantra (see Meditation) and then recite the mantra of Rahu with a mala
(rosary) of 108 beads, going around twice:
AUM RANG RAHUVE NAMAH AUM
Yantra for Rahu
3
Health and Diseases
Diseases related to Rahu include colds and coughs and infectious diseases or
diseases caused by infection. A shortage of blood, heart trouble, high or low
blood pressure (mostly high), and diseases that cannot be easily diagnosed or
cured are also associated with Rahu.
Number 4 people should use oregano seeds and fenugreek seeds to prevent
problems created by low gastric fire and gas troubles. This will protect them
from heart troubles and blood pressure difficulties. Also, fenugreek seeds are
good for the immune system and help prevent infections. They should use carrot
juice, beet juice, and fruit juices to prevent a shortage of blood. They should also
avoid anger because anger boils the blood and increases blood pressure. The use
of hessonite powder can save them from problems created by Rahu. Regular use
of purifying teas, green leafy vegetables, and sprouts (such as mungbeans,
wheatgrass, and fenugreek) will help them remain strong and healthy.
Fasting
They should fast every Monday and on the fourth day of each ascending and
descending cycle of the Moon. That day they should drink juices and if
necessary eat fruits after sunset.
Friendship
Numbers 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7 are good for friendship. If the persons with these
numbers are born during a number 4s strong period, they will make more
suitable friends.
Romance
Number 1 is the best. After that, 6, and then 4, are good for marriage and
romance.
Good Years in Life
The 4th year, the 13th, 22nd, 31st, 40th, 48th, 49th, 58th, 67th, 76th, and 85th
are good for them; also good are the 8th year, the 17th, 26th, 35th, 44th, 53rd,
62nd, 71st, and 80th.
NUMBER 4 PEOPLE IN RELATIONSHIP
The information that follows is based upon a comparison of psychic number 4s
to other psychic numbers. It can also be used to compare destiny 4s to other
destiny numbers, and name 4s to other name numbers. (The comparisons are
based upon like categories.)
Number 4 and Number 1
Astrologically, 4 and 1 are enemies—opposites in this world of opposites.
Opposite poles attract each other and together create an entirely new third force.
Sols are very good for 4s. Number 1 s are lucky, with a wide circle of
acquaintances and friends, while number 4s isolate themselves. Their friendship
is beneficial. Both are practical, hard working, and interested in politics; they
love reforms and can be ideal partners in politics. Number 4s are not fortunate in
domestic life, but 1s can make them fortunate. Since 1s are naturally attracted to
4s, they can make good life partners. Since 4s are indecisive, 1s can be of help to
them in this area. In business partnership, 1s are also beneficial for 4s. Fours are
therefore advised to select 1s for any kind of relationship, for a job interview
date, or for a residential number. Number 4s look at things from the side of the
underdog and are unconventional. This fresh perspective gives 1s an added
dimension. Fours are also enriched by the additional dimension acquired from
1s. Both numbers are helpful to society, and together they become great helpers
of mankind.
Number 4 and Number 2
Number 4 and number 2 are both even numbers, but in astrology they are
enemies, since they are ruled by Rahu (4) and the Moon (2). Number 4 people
produce obstacles in the paths of 2s and are detrimental to their growth. Number
2s who have 4 as a name number or destiny number suffer from obstacles and
difficulties. Twos are too moody and emotional, and 4s are intolerant. Both are
numbers of constant changes. Changes in 4s are sudden and unexpected, which
creates psychological problems for 2s. Therefore 4s should not select 2s for
marriage or business partnership. Since 2s are not harmful for 4s, they can select
2s for friends. The number 2 is also good for appointment dates or residence
numbers.
Number 4 and Number 3
Number 3s are neutral toward 4s, though 4s are enemies of 3s. Since 4s are static
and 3s are dynamic, their friendship benefits the 4s. Number 3 people are good
advisers to 4s, and if this advice is followed 4s gain strength. This friendship
helps 4s grow and develop. The number 3 is a friendly number and universal
helper, so 4s are benefited by this friendship, business partnerships, etc. Number
4 women can select number 3 men for marriage, but the reverse is not true.
Number 3 women can understand and sympathize with the problems of 4s, and
give them positive energy to cure their doubting nature. Because 3s inspire
people and have a wide circle of friends, they can also save 4s from isolation and
depression.
Number 4 and Number 4
Similar poles repel each other and like numbers usually do not make an ideal
combination. Two number 4s are thus not very beneficial to each other, although
they never cause each other harm. Two psychic number 4 people can become
good friends, but when together they become more inert, inactive, and static.
Although they cannot make ideal life partners, friends, or business partners, they
can still survive together. But the doubting nature of both brings more
difficulties and causes problems in planning for future. For marriage, 4s should
select 4s born on a Sunday during the favorable periods (between March 21 and
April 28 or between July 10 and August 20). The destiny number and name
number of these two 4s should also be compatible with each other. Fours can
select 4s as appointment dates or residential numbers.
Number 4 and Number 5
Number 5 is ruled by Mercury. This makes number 5 people unstable by nature
and very dependent. The friendships are not very fruitful for the number 4
people. This is because 5s are childlike and number 4s, who cannot give them
the attention they need, slowly lose interest in the friendship. Number 5 people
are dynamic, but they need energy from others; 4s do not provide that energy.
They do not have bad feelings toward each other and can survive together, but
their friendship is not mutually beneficial. Number 4s are, therefore, advised to
select 5s for appointment dates, residential numbers, casual friendships, but not
to enter into a marriage or business partnership with them.
Number 4 and Number 6
Numbers 4 and 6 are harmonious. Number 4s are easily attracted to 6s, but their
long-term relationship brings the 4s utter dissatisfaction. Sixes do not provide
any guidance to 4s, because 6s are ruled by Venus, which makes them slow and
sometimes lazy. They cannot work hard like 4s. Both numbers spend money
freely and unnecessarily. If they work together in business, they cannot earn
enough to meet their expenses. Sixes are slow and lack steadiness and patience,
while number 4s are just the opposite—too quick. Number 4s cannot plan their
future because of the sudden and unexpected changes that quite frequently come
into their life. Since 6s like to plan things ahead of time, this creates problems in
a business partnership. Both 4s and 6s have to live alone several times in their
lives. It is difficult for this combination to work together, but, as mentioned
earlier, 4s are attracted to 6s and can enjoy their friendship. Number 6 people are
generally uncommitted and have sexual relationships outside their marriage; this
is a little difficult for 4s to handle. Also, since 4s are not blessed with good
domestic lives, their selection of a 6 as a life partner may not be very
harmonious. However, a number 4 man can marry a number 6 woman, if
necessary, and they can have a few wonderful years of marital life. A number 4
can select a 6 as an appointment date or residence numbers.
Number 4 and Number 7
Number 7 and number 4 are two sides of the same energy. Number 7 is ruled by
Ketu—the dragon’s tail or south node of the Moon. Rahu, which rules number 4,
is known as the dragon’s head, or north node of the Moon. They are 180 degrees
apart and so they view things from totally different perspectives. Number 4s are
aggressive, 7s are passive. Astrologically, they are friends. As the body works
for the head, so number 7 natives work for 4s and can spend energy on them
without feeling bad. Number 7s are good friends, business partners, and life
partners for 4s. The relationship is even more enjoyable when the 7 is a woman
and the 4 a man. In a business partnership, the business can run very well if the 7
invests the money and the 4 carries out the practical work of the business. They
complement each other; yet the head rules over the body.
Number 4 and Number 8
Number 8 is a quiet, calming, and peace-giving number for number 4. Both
numbers are even and thus static. However, since 4 is an active number, its
combination with 8 does not bring inertness or passivity. Both numbers are
lawbreakers, unconventional, and rebellious. Both numbers are helpers of the
poor and suffering. If they are interested in politics, they form a strong
opposition camp and fight for human rights and freedom. Number 8s are good
for 4s in friendship, business partnership, and marriage. The relationship works
much better if 8 is a man and 4 a woman. While 8 provides the basic security,
the 4 can develop its own virtues. Number 8 is a powerful number and its natives
gain material wealth and success in the latter half of their lives. Fours are
successful only in the latter part of their lives. In the beginning, both numbers
have to face opposition, difficulties, delays, and hard struggles, but the last half
of their life becomes good. Number 4s are advised to select 8s for friendship,
business, and life partnership. They should avoid the number 8 for a name
number, for appointment dates related to an important job, or for residential
numbers to avoid difficulties and delays.
Number 4 and Number 9
Number 9 is ruled by Mars, an enemy of number 4. Number 9 is social by
nature, and number 4 is less so. Their friendship benefits number 4. Number 9
natives are honest and hard working, but fighters by nature; 4s are enemies of 9s
and have great endurance.
Number 9s are strong enough not to feel challenged by the criticism of 4s.
Number 4s encourage 9s to engage in more activity, which helps 9s to develop
their creative abilities. On the other hand, 9s help number 4s to develop strong
willpower and to remove their doubts and confusion. Thus these numbers are
beneficial in friendship and business partnerships. In marriage, 4s are advised to
avoid marrying 9s, especially if the 9 is a woman and the 4 a man. If necessary, a
number 4 woman can marry a number 9 man.
Mercury and Number 5
Mercury is the ruling planet of people born on day 5, 14, or 23 of any month, or
whose destiny or name number adds up to 5. The qualities of Mercury described
below are most clearly visible in people who have 5 as a psychic number.
Mercury, the smallest planet in our solar system, is famous for being
associated with quick response, changeable character, ready wit, and
restlessness. It is also known as an evergreen planet—the planet that is always
young. Its Sanskrit name, Kumar (youthful), indicates its youthful and princely
nature. It is also called Buddha in Sanskrit, a planet of buddhi, which literally
means intellect and ready wit or pratiuttapanna mati.
It is related to the respiratory system, the nervous system, speech, education,
and intelligence.
It is neutral in gender and is regarded as a cold and moist planet. In the Hindu
system, Earth is its element and it is a merchant by nature. This merchant-like
nature of Mercury makes it take risks and gamble—a planet of extremes. On the
one hand, the Mercury-dominated natives are lovers of physical comforts and
money-minded and, on the other, they do not care for money or physical
comforts.
Although Mercury is regarded as a benefic and auspicious planet, it makes its
natives suspicious, serious, cunning, and sometime deceitful. Mercury natives
are witty and lovers of humor and entertainment. They are manipulative, wise,
delicate, attractive, and fond of travel and adventure. They are born orators,
although they are scientific in their approach. They are also lovers of the fine
arts, soft-spoken, doubting, fragile, and tenderhearted. They are easily attracted
to the study of astrology, numerology, palmistry, physiognomy, graphology, and
psychology because they want to know about themselves and others as clearly as
possible. They are materialistic, rational, analytical, and critical by nature; and
they love modern ideas.
Mercury, a planet of mixed temperament, has a dual nature. It makes its
natives think of both pros and cons at the same time. Its natives are learned and
scholarly people and enjoy the company of like people. Mercury is the only
planet that is exalted in its own sign.
Mercury is friendly with the Sun, Venus, Rahu, and Ketu. Saturn, Mars, and
Jupiter are neutral toward it in friendship. Mercury feels enmity toward the
Moon, but this feeling is not mutual.
NUMBER 5
Psychic Number 5
These natives have gentle and fragile characters and are elevated thinkers. They
are scholars by nature and are trying to learn every minute. Their active brains
are always engaged in thought. They love amusement and try to become jovial
and create a happy atmosphere around them. This sometimes consumes a lot of
their energy, since nobody can make everybody happy. But, as they are
interested in winning the favor of others, they spend all their energy and use all
their resources to make others happy.
They are quick in their decisions and impulsive in their behavior. They love
change and do not make long-range plans (which call for patience), although
they are always busy planning new ways to make money. Because they are
endowed with a facility for speculation and are willing to run risks, they invent
new ways to make money quickly and avoid long-term plans. Their willingness
to risk makes them gamble; and if they really do so, they may gain wealth in this
way.
They have youthful and fertile brains with mature thoughts, which make them
unique and attractive. They can develop friendships very easily and quickly with
any number, but because they are unstable by nature, the friendships do not last
very long. They often break friendships very easily during their weak period; at
such times, they are deceived by and lose faith in their friends and feel lonely.
Psychic number 5s are very intuitive by nature. They can accurately
understand the intent of any person who visits them and can easily see the
maneuvers of their partners and colleagues. They give answers to questions
before the person asking finishes. Often they say, “I know what you mean”
because they understand intuitively the essence of what is being said.
They are very adaptable and can bear any tragedy and calamity with a smile
on their face. However, they are not very flexible in their own homes and do not
like people to touch or change the order in which they have things arranged.
With children, they are like a child; with young persons, a revolutionary and
progressive youth; and with wise elderly people, wise.
They are brilliant logicians—openness and eloquence render their opponents
helpless. They can befriend their opponents and convert them to their own point
of view.
They are able to impress people by their attractive and charming personality,
progressive ideas, adaptability, clarity of expression and logic, positive and
optimistic attitude, and jovial, youthful nature.
They are spendthrifts by nature, but sometimes they become extravagant.
Although their financial condition fluctuates, they are able to save money, which
they can use during their hard times. They are generally lucky in getting money
whenever they need it.
They do not earn through one source only. They cannot sit idle and love to
invent methods to make money quickly. They always invest money in business;
and, because of their speculative nature and willingness to take risks, they
ultimately become successful in business. They are reliable partners.
They are time conscious—they value their own time and are always in a
hurry.
They are fond of fine arts, especially poetry—they can and do express their
ideas in a very poetic way.
They have a flexible character and change easily, but they do not like to
change their way of working, which is very distinctive.
They are travelers by nature and broaden their experience and knowledge
through their journeys, both in their own country and in distant lands. They like
to live in foreign lands away from their families, to enjoy life and learn.
Those psychic number 5 people born on the twenty-third of any month are
luckier than those born on the fifth. Those born on the fourteenth of any month,
however, are less fortunate. They have to face many obstacles and difficulties
and much opposition in their family life, although they are able to achieve
success in the material world rather quickly. Psychic number 5 people born on
the twenty-third are helped by their relatives, superiors, government officials,
politicians, and those in authority. Those born on the fifth of any month are
obstinate, hard working, independent, reliable, self-made, and lucky in love.
They spend their old age in peace with reasonable comforts of life. They remain
youthful and attractive into their old age and always have helpers around.
Although they believe in fate and destiny, they praise the law of karma and
work constantly. However, they know that fate is more important, and they are
lucky enough in their life to get whatever they want by chance. If they gamble,
they multiply their money two or three times; and they do not regret their losses.
They live on their nerves and love excitement.
They are not influenced by any kind of preaching. They appreciate traditional
beliefs but do not become mystical. They remain independent thinkers, open to
new ideas. They love the company of learned and wise people, as well as young,
progressive, and modern people.
They are very cautious about their health and careful in selecting foods they
need. They are quite conscious about their physical appearance. Although
fragile, they have strong builds and remain healthy and active into their old age,
usually living long lives.
As Mercury is exalted in its own sign, Virgo, two psychic number 5 people
are the best friends.
Psychic number of 5 women are more attractive, impressive, gentle, softspoken, and fragile than psychic 5 men. They are career conscious and, through
their hard labor and pleasing manners, build magnificent careers for themselves.
They can receive benefit by marrying young. It becomes difficult for them to
find real friends and true mates later in life. They can easily attract people; but,
because they are very cunning, overly selective, and diplomatic but superficial in
handling members of opposite sex, they have difficulty choosing a good
husband. Only a few men can qualify for the role as their husband. When they
are associated in business or otherwise with men, they make financial and social
gains. They execute their duties so perfectly that they get proper recognition and
are beyond criticism.
Precautions for Psychic Number 5
These precautions are helpful to number 5 natives during their weak periods.
They should not, in any case, lose their natural sense of humor and jovial
nature.
They should not use bitter, pungent, or sharp language when angry.
They should stop being overly critical at all occasions.
They should avoid stress and strain on their heart and nerves.
They should keep the company of children and not stay away from
amusement.
They should stop hurrying all the time.
They should stop straining their eyes by either reading at night or watching
TV, films, and other performances.
They should avoid misjudging people and instead create faith in their
friends and well-wishers.
They should overcome irritation and brooding.
They should do exercises to develop self-confidence, tranquility of mind,
calmness, and strength in their heart.
They should develop more patience toward their family members and
friends.
They should avoid being fatalistic.
They should try to become less obstinate.
Number 5 natives are advised to avoid the following:
Excess salt if they have problems with their heart or blood pressure. (If they
are not troubled by any kind of heart or skin ailments, they should use more
salt. They are advised to use more salt during the growth periods of
childhood and adolescence.)
Exposure to cold.
Forcing their ideas on others.
Giving false hope and making false promises to others.
Trusting strangers and being inattentive while traveling.
They should:
Take good, long morning walks.
Drink more juices and be conscious about the purity of their blood since
they are easily susceptible to skin diseases and heart troubles.
Make small trips, stay happy, avoid the company of unsuccessful and
pessimistic people.
Listen patiently to the opinion of others.
Massage their bodies with almond oil at least once or twice a week to
strengthen their nerves and enhance circulation.
Do manual labor or gardening to relieve their overactive brains.
Enter into business partnerships or life partnerships with numbers 5, 1, 3, or
9.
Develop contacts with prominent people, without any selfish motive.
Learn to be content, to honor their friends, and to appreciate others
Destiny Number 5
Five is the best destiny number for psychic number 5 people; they become very
strong, obstinate, independent (but dependable), lucky, wise, attractive, and
impressive.
A psychic number of 6 is also very suitable for destiny number 5 people, who
become self-sufficient in the early part of their life. These people can solve their
own problems, make good businesses, and create a good and inspiring
atmosphere among their colleagues and business partners. A psychic number 6 is
slow in making decisions, while a destiny 5 is quick. This balance of speed and
caution makes their decisions valuable in whatever business they do.
Five is a good destiny number because:
It brings gentleness, kindness, wisdom, intuition, insight, happiness,
alertness, and good luck.
It brings wealth through the lottery, inheritance, and risks taken in business.
It makes its natives logical, rational, and systematic.
It gives them the power to speculate and progress in the material field;
sometimes it makes them pioneers—discoverers and inventors in their field
of work.
It provides them with favors from the government, people in authority,
political leaders, friends, and relatives.
It brings them recognition for contributions in their field of work.
It makes them versatile, impressive, attractive, and naturally optimistic.
It brings them change in their work and living situations.
It brings them good luck in love affairs.
It makes them live in foreign lands for long periods of time.
Five is a good destiny number for all numbers except for psychic number 2s
and 7s. It is most suited for publishers, writers, lawyers, critics, politicians,
businessmen, actors, scholars, orators, storytellers, entertainers, sculptors, and
astrologers.
Name Number 5
Five is also a good name number. It makes its natives progressive, jovial, and
alive; it gives them popularity and positive vibrations. This name number is
especially beneficial when the destiny number is 5 also; then it brings its natives
great material success and fame. Their name continues to be remembered even
after death.
Name number 5 is not good for people with a psychic or destiny number of 2
or 7, or those with a destiny number of 4. The number 2 becomes more unstable
with a name number 5. Number 7 earns a bad name. And number 4 faces more
and more difficulties because 5 is a number of communication and 4 does not
like to communicate.
Name number 5 is very favorable for writers, poets, businessmen, bankers,
sportsmen, publishers, journalists, doctors, actors, politicians, and those in the
communications business.
BALANCING INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL
ENVIRONMENTS
By observing fasts, using the proper spices and gem powders, meditatingon the
mantras, and using the yantras, one can balance the internal environment.
Balancing the external environment is possible by choosing the right time for
activities (in the ascending cycle or descending cycle), selecting good friends
(finding compatible numbers), and starting a job at the appropriate time
(observing weak period and strong periods). Balance is achieved by working
with the energy flow that is already available, as described in the sections that
follow. The information that follows applies to people with psychic number 5.
Weak Periods
Number 5 people often feel weak and sad, because their ruling planet Mercury is
frequently retrograde.
They can feel weakness and a lack of interest; sick; a lack of joy, humor, and
inspiration; a setback in their health, overly sensitive, and overly worried; or
they can suffer from financial Joss and debt during the months of May,
September, and December.
During these months, they can feel deceived by their friends and partners,
lonely, withdrawn, suspicious, doubting, and obstinate.
Strong Periods
Their strong periods are between May 21 and June 20 and between August 21
and September 20.
These periods are beneficial for undertaking new jobs, making new contracts
or promises, finishing jobs, and looking for better housing or work.
Good Dates
Days 5, 14, and 23 of any month are good dates, especially when these dates fall
within their good periods.
Good Days
Wednesday and Friday are good for number 5 people. If these days fall on day 5,
14, or 23 of any month, they become more beneficial.
Favorable Colors
Number 5 natives are advised to use all shades of green, turquoise, light shades
of brown, smoky grey, and white. They should use these colors in their clothing,
pillows and cushion covers, curtains, tablecloths, bed sheets, etc. They should
also keep a handkerchief of any shade of green, grey, or white; these colors are
pleasing to their eyes. Whenever they feel uneasy, they can wash their hands,
face, and eyes, and dry their face and hands with it for refreshment and energy.
Precious Stones
An emerald of three carats, set in a ring with open back, should be worn on the
little finger. The emerald, or its substitute stone, should be bought on a
Wednesday and given to the jeweler on the same day. It should be picked up
from the jeweler on a Wednesday and worn after the proper rituals have been
performed.
They should take emerald powder to help their bodies heal electrochemically.
Meditation
They should meditate on Lakshmi, the goddess of wealth, peace, and prosperity.
If this is not possible, they should meditate on an emerald, or the substitute
gemstone.
Deity
Their deity, Mahalakshmi, sits on a pink lotus in blue water in the lotus posture.
She has four arms. With one right hand, she is blessing her devotees; with the
other, she holds a water pot containing holy water, the elixir. With one left hand,
she holds a lotus flower; with the other, she pours out gold coins, giving wealth.
Mantra
Japa
1
(repetition) of the mantra of any planet should be completed within the
ascending cycle of the moon and should be repeated the prescribed number of
times.
AUM MAHALAKSHMAYE VIDMAHE
VISHNU PRIYAYE DHI MAHI
TANNO LAKSHMI PRACHODAYAT
Number 5s should recite the above mantra as many times as possible at the
time of their meditations. It will bring them all kinds of material and spiritual
benefits and strengthen their willpower.
Yantra for Mercury
2
Health and Diseases
Diseases linked with Mercury are chronic dysentery, constipation, gastric pain,
gastritis, indigestion caused by weak stomach fire, kidney problems, restlessness
of mind, and fear of evil spirits and ghosts.
Number 5 people are also susceptible to the flu, colds and coughs, skin
problems, nervous breakdowns, headaches, a weak memory, blood pressure
problems, and ailments of the heart.
Fasting
They are advised to fast on full moon days. If they are born on a Wednesday,
they should fast on Wednesdays as well.
Friendship
In addition to number 5, their best friend, numbers 1, 3, and 9 are also suitable
numbers for friendship.
Romance
For marriage and romance, they should select men or women born between May
21 and June 21 or between August 21 and September 20. The psychic number of
their mates should be either 1, 3, 5, or 9; psychic number 1 natives are very
suitable.
Good Years in Life
The 5th year, the 14th, 23rd, 32nd, 41st, 50th, 59th, 68th, 77th, and 86th are the
best of their lives; also all years that add up to the number 1—the 1st, 10th, 19th,
28th, 37th, 46th, 55th, 64th, 73rd, 82nd, and 91st—are very favorable.
NUMBER 5 PEOPLE IN RELATIONSHIP
The information given below is based upon a comparison of psychic number 5s
to other psychic numbers. It can also be used to compare destiny 5s to other
destiny numbers, and name 5s to other name numbers. (The comparisons are
based upon like categories.)
Number 5 and Number 1
Number 5 and 1 are friendly numbers. Ones bring good luck, expensive gifts,
and social status to 5s, but 5s do not accept their influence. Although 5s are
always helpful and good friends to Is in time of need, they are never influenced
by them. Number 5s help Is gain social status and achieve financial gain because
of their speculative skills and systematic methods. But, since both are
independent in nature, a number 1 man does not prove to be a good husband to a
number 5 woman. However, a number 1 woman can be a good wife to a number
5 man. In business, number 1s are not good partners for 5s, but 5s are good
partners for any number, including 1s. In the political and social fields, both
numbers can work together with much success. These numbers make a
beneficial combination, and they should rely on each other.
Number 5 and Number 2
Numbers 5 and 2 have a strange relationship. Although 2s are neutral toward 5,
5s do not feel a rapport with them. Both numbers are unstable and therefore
create problems for each other. They can enjoy each other only while performing
silly, foolish tasks. Twos become very funny and suggest foolish ideas to 5s.
Twos should not select a 5 for an appointment date or residential number, bank
account, telephone, or license plate number. Fives are attracted by 2s, but soon
friction develops and the relationships end. Number 5s, therefore, should not
enter into business or marriage with 2s.
Number 5 and Number 3
The number 3 is ruled by Jupiter, which is neutral to Mercury, the lord of 5s.
Number 3 natives have a positive influence on 5s; together they create an
atmosphere of humor and joy. They help each other and enjoy being together.
Number 3 men can be good life partners to number 5 women. In business 5s
always gain financially from 3s, who in turn learn the secrets of accounting and
good business from 5s.
Number 5 and Number 4
Although 5s are friends of 4s, they do not become ideal friends. The unstable
nature of a 5 creates problems for a 4. They are unsuitable for friendship,
marriage, or business partnership, unless the 4 has 5 as a destiny number.
Number 5 and Number 5
Two number 5s become powerful together. The company of two same numbers
is normally fruitless, but not so with this combination. They reach unexpected
heights in politics, art, and business. People with 5 as both a psychic and destiny
number are very impressive, attractive, wise, and cunning. They have strong
personalities, whether men or women. Fives are good for each other in every
respect, be it friendship, business partnership, or marriage. Fives should also
select this number for appointment dates or residential numbers.
Number 5 and Number 6
Numbers 5 and 6 are mutual friends. Sixes are slow, and 5s are quick. Sixes put
the reins on the speedy minds of 5s and help them overcome their restlessness.
Sixes are beneficial for 5s in friendship, business partnership, and marriage.
Number 5 natives serve as good therapists or physicians to 6s. Five should select
the number 6 for appointment dates and residential numbers.
Number 5 and Number 7
Although number 5 and 7 are friendly, they do not act as such for long. They are
easily attracted to each other. Number 5 natives inspire 7s in many ways, but
always in the wrong direction. When they are together, they can have
mischievous and malicious thoughts, but they cannot be of practical help to each
other. Sevens do not provide positive energy to 5s and are not, therefore, good
for friendship, business partnership, or marriage. As life partners, 5s always find
fault in 7s and blame them for all family problems.
Number 5 and Number 8
Number 8 is ruled by Saturn, a planet neutral to Mercury in friendship. Fives,
however, feel friendly toward 8s. This combination does not have many
difficulties as friends. But 8s tend to neglect 5s, which makes 5s not cooperate
with them wholeheartedly. Therefore, 5s should avoid 8s for friendship, business
partnership, or any important venture—especially marriage. Unless the psychic
number 5 person has a destiny number of 8, they should not select 8s for
appointment dates or residential numbers.
Number 5 and Number 9
Number 9 is ruled by Mars, an enemy of Mercury. Although Mercury, like
Saturn, is neutral in friendship to Mars, 9s help 5s in activities related to
business, money, or making a living. Together they create good vibrations. This
is because 9s are ruled by Mars, which is fiery and hot, and 5s are ruled by
Mercury, which is cold and moist. This pair of opposites works very well
together. Number 9 functions as a patient spouse and guardian.
Fives should select 9s for friendship, projects of mutual interest, and business
partnership. In the absence of a good number 5 husband, number 5 women
should select a number 1 or 3 for her husband, with 9 as the last choice. With
this combination marriage is possible, and, if they are spiritually inclined, it can
be long-lasting. Fives should also select a number 9 for appointment dates and
residential numbers.
o0000000000
100000000
Venus and Number 6
Venus is the ruling planet of people born on day 6, 15, or 24 of any month, or of
those whose destiny number or name number totals 6. The Venus qualities
described below are most clearly visible in people whose psychic number is 6.
Venus, commonly known as the morning star, is the most radiant planet in the
eastern sky before sunrise. It can be seen with the naked eye twice—before
sunrise and after sunset. According to astrology, Venus is considered a benefic
planet with a feminine, watery nature. In mythology, Venus has two different
images. One is of a fair-complexioned youth who is an embodiment of love and
sensuality. He has curly hair, attractive eyes, and a radiant body. He is an
outgoing hedonist and gentle by nature. The other image is that of a teacher
(acharya) of the antigods (asuras) in which he has white matted hair and a big
beard.
Known by the name Shukra (which in Sanskrit literally means semen), Venus
is the presiding deity of semen, of the sensuous side of human nature. Venus
governs the refined attributes, romance, beauty, passion, sexual pleasure, and
fine arts, like music, poetry, dance. It also governs the eyes, throat, chin, kidney,
and the reproductive system.
Venus is rajastic (active) and gives its natives an active, artistic, sensuous,
and passionate nature. It makes them beautiful and bestows upon them
proportionate and attractive bodies (especially the upper torso and upper arms)
and lotus-like eyes. Venus-dominated natives are fair complexioned, and they
usually have a happy, graceful personality. They are lively, emotional, sensitive,
playful, loving, courteous, frivolous, and polite. They are creative, inventive, and
are interested in medicine, alchemy, Tantra, hypnotism, mesmerism, and the fine
arts.
Venus governs the adolescent stage of life. Its influence on women is slightly
different than on men.
Venus is a friend of Mercury and Saturn. Jupiter and Mars are neutral in their
friendship with Venus (although Venus regards Jupiter as an opponent). The Sun
and Moon are enemies to Venus.
Number 6 is regarded as the most fortunate of all numbers from 1 to 9. Those
6s born on the twenty-fourth of any month are the most fortunate.
NUMBER 6
Psychic Number 6
Six is the psychic number of those born on day 6, 15, or 24 of any month. These
natives are magnetic, youthful, gentle, soft-spoken, luxury-loving, artistic, and
possessors of refined taste. They attract members of the opposite sex easily and
are usually loved and respected by them.
They spend freely, are social, and have opportunities to meet beautiful people.
They love travel and of ten journey to foreign lands. They are always busy.
They are overly conscious about their physical appearance and try to dress so
as to always be presentable.
They dislike ugliness, dirtiness, mismanagement, and disorder. They like to
keep their dwelling places clean and orderly. They love to decorate their homes,
rooms, offices, or places of work.
They love their life partner, or person with whom they live, under all
circumstances and try to please them. Their married life is ordinary, but orderly.
They do not like to be in a disturbed environment and do not initiate
arguments. If someone starts to battle with them, they run from the field and are
always ready for a compromise.
Psychic number 6 people are clever and tactful and are able to learn about the
deeply guarded secrets of others without deliberate effort. They think before they
act, which gives them a slow tempo. But they like their habit of being slow and
they believe that “slow and steady wins the race.” They are usually upset when
they are expected to move quickly and spoil a task by making mistakes. They
want to remain peaceful and do not like any interference once they have started
their work. They also do not like anyone to act against their will. Yet they are
not commanding or demanding; they can keep their feelings inside and hide their
anger under attractive smiles.
They are secretive by nature and can keep the secrets of others, never
revealing them to anyone else.
They are universal friends and make good family members. They are
considerate and kind to their families and understand the joys and sorrows of
their kith and kin. They maintain relationships with their parents, even after they
leave the home. They are easily touched by the sorrow of their parents and try
their best to help them. They trust their friends and family members.
Because of their refined taste, sweet manners, and considerate and gentle
nature, they are popular in their circle of friends and become everybody’s
favorite. They are extravagant.
They are lucky enough to get all the luxuries and facilities of modern living—
such as a house with a garden, vehicles—before the age of forty-five.
They love company and cannot live alone for long. There is a big difference
between number 6 men and number 6 women.
Psychic Number 6 Men
Psychic number 6 men are youthful, attractive, and magnetic; they are expert in
the art of lovemaking. They are skilled in influencing the psyches of women to
attract and seduce them. All their lives, they search for beautiful and attractive
women and like to remain in their company. They have many relationships and
do not remain bound to the women they marry. They are hedonistic and
materialistic in their attitudes. They are against discipline and are incapable of
maintaining any kind of spiritual practice; sometimes they can be religious, but
mostly they are not so. They are susceptible to venereal and seminal diseases.
Psychic Number 6 Women
Psychic number 6 women are physically beautiful, symmetrical, and have
refined tastes. Their love is a kind of motherly love. During adolescence, they
are mischievous, playful, and sensual. At that time they are easily drawn toward
sexuality and enjoy sexual games; after twenty-five they tire of these fruitless
games. Withdrawing from sexual adventures, they become more interested in
their careers and learning how to live happier and more contented lives. They are
usually slow and very temperamental. They are fond of dresses and jewelry.
They design their gowns and live comfortably. They are easily attracted to
learned, artistic, and spiritually inclined people. They serve their family
members and parents and love justice and truth. They are dependable and do not
run from their responsibilities. They seduce holy men.
Psychic number 6 men and women have few friends, and they live alone many
times in their lives. They love their homes.
They are uncommitted; they love freedom, simplicity, and serenity and are not
selfish.
They are unsteady and cannot concentrate on any one subject for a long period
of time.
They are very lucky and get help and guidance throughout their life from
unknown sources, foreigners, and people in authority.
Precautions for Psychic Number 6 People
Number 6 people should avoid laziness. They should not become easily agitated.
If they use the Ayurvedic preparations mukta pishti (pearl powder) or prawal
pishti (coral powder) with a teaspoon of cream or honey before retiring, they
overcome their nervousness. They should learn to judge people thoroughly
before trusting them. Women especially should learn to judge others before
entering into physical or financial relationships.
They should avoid arguments and not expend their energies explaining their
behavior or ideas.
They are at their best when they work slowly; they should avoid rushing
because it makes them spoil the project.
They should avoid getting emotional and giving undue importance to
members of the opposite sex.
They should avoid hard physical labor, because their constitutions are not
suited to such jobs.
They should forgive people who wrong them and not waste their energy
entertaining thoughts of revenge. Bearing grudges and brooding over unpleasant
events of the past harms their nervous systems.
They should avoid the use of intoxicants, because they are susceptible to
addictions.
They should avoid intimate relationships outside of their marriages.
They should avoid sweet dishes, oils and fats, and spicy foods.
They should practice pranayama (breath control techniques, prescribed and
taught in Hatha Yoga), take regular morning walks, and massage their bodies
three to four times a week.
They should arrange their lives, organize their schedules, and not spend too
much time doing watersports in places of amusement.
They should save money for their hard times.
Destiny Number 6
As stated earlier, 6 is not a good destiny number. This is true for women
especially. Destiny 6 creates many sexual problems, for which individuals are
not really responsible. It makes them enter into unwanted sexual relationships.
When 6 is a psychic number, the natural inclination toward the opposite sex is in
the psyche and can be accepted. But when such things happen by chance, almost
without personal involvement, the physical relationship seems to be forced, as if
by destiny.
Destiny number 6s get all comforts and luxuries by means of luck. They have
all they want, but they cannot find suitable life partners if they do not marry in
their early years.
They take care of their friends and relations without a second thought and
have to work hard all their life doing so.
They become very independent, yet remain social.
They are good conversationalists and good storytellers. They travel a lot and
enjoy their lives; they love good, tasty food.
Destiny 6 people are more sentimental than logical and have a tendency to
brood over their past.
They do not accept bondage and are uncommitted; they break laws and do not
follow traditional religions. They get interested in secret sciences, such as
alchemy, Tantra (especially the left-handed Tantra), witchcraft, and black magic.
They are dependable, peace-loving, romantic, methodical in their work, and
can serve as good diplomats. They protect the interests of their own class.
Money slips from their hands. They are generous and spend lavishly to
entertain their relatives and friends.
They become fond of collecting beautiful dresses, perfumes, cosmetics,
jewelry, and precious stones.
They remain attractive, charming, and youthful until their old age. Women
especially retain their glamour for a long time.
They suffer from overwork and overindulgence in sexual pleasure; they are
prone to venereal diseases.
Name Number 6
As a name number, 6 is most suitable for poets, artists, musicians, and dancers.
It imparts a friendly quality, which makes 6s easily acceptable and popular.
This name number is also good for those interested in the occult sciences; they
can gain magical powers.
Name number 6 makes people cooperative, kind, sympathetic, hospitable,
charitable, emotional, and unstable. It makes them sociable and lovers of idle
gossip. They are easily attracted by internal and external beauty, both in human
form and in nature.
BALANCING INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL
ENVIRONMENTS
By observing fasts, using the proper spices and gem powders, meditating on the
mantras, and using the yantras, one can balance the internal environment.
Balancing the external environment is possible by choosing the right time for
activities (in the ascending cycle or descending cycle), selecting good friends
(finding compatible numbers), and starting a job at the appropriate time
(observing weak period and strong periods). Balance is achieved by working
with the energy flow that is already available, as described in the sections that
follow. The information that follows applies to people with psychic number 6.
Weak Periods
April, October, and November are the weak periods for number 6 people. Also,
whenever Venus is retrograde, they have problems with their health, receive bad
news, and can experience mental problems or obstacles in their work. They can
feel a lack of courage, inspiration, steadiness, and patience. They become proud,
discourteous, obstinate, argumentative, jealous, and indecisive. They lose their
common sense and trust everybody; when they are deceived, they get
emotionally upset.
Strong Periods
The period between April 20 and May 18 and between September 21 and
October 19 are strong and favorable for number 6 people. They should undertake
new jobs, make new contracts, look for new homes (if needed), and finish
incomplete jobs during these dates. The periods between April 20 and April 30
and between October 1 and 19 are especially strong; they should utilize these
times to perform actions that help their future jobs.
Good Dates
Days 6, 15, and 24 of every month are favorable for number 6 natives. Also days
3, 9, 12, 18, 21, 27, and 30 are beneficial.
Good Days
Wednesdays and Fridays are their good days. If these days fall on any of the
above-mentioned dates, they become more beneficial.
Favorable Colors
White is the best color for number 6s, because it is the color of their ruling
planet, Venus. Light blue, pink, and chrome yellow are also good for them.
(Chrome yellow is associated with Jupiter, and since Venus is exalted in Pisces
—a sign ruled by Jupiter—yellow enhances the good qualities of 6s and makes
them more radiant. A number 6 woman should use a lot of pink. On important
occasions, a number 6 woman should wear a white dress for success. For interior
decorating, 6s—male or female—should use as much white as possible, such as
white bed sheets and pillow covers. As well, they should always carry a white
handkerchief to wipe their hands and face when they feel tired or weak.
Precious Stones
Diamonds are the favored stone for number 6 natives, because it is associated
with Venus. In case they cannot afford a diamond, they can use white sapphire,
white zircon, or white tourmaline. The diamond should be bought on a Friday
between sunrise and 11 A.M. It should be given to the jeweler and set in a ring,
with an open back, on a Friday. It should be picked up from the jeweler on a
Friday and worn, after proper cleansing and rituals, on a Friday between sunrise
and 11 A.M.
Sixes should take white tourmaline powder to help their bodies heal
electrochemically.
Meditation
After the morning cleansing, they should meditate on their diamond or substitute
stone.
Deity
The deity of number 6 natives is Kartike, the elder son of Shiva. Also known as
Skandha and Subramaniyam, he has six heads, four arms, and rides on a
peacock. He is the God of war.
Mantra
Japa
1
(repetition) of the mantra of any planet should be completed within the
ascending cycle of the moon and should be repeated the prescribed number of
times. Although it is difficult for number 6 natives to follow spiritual disciplines,
they can benefit by reciting the following mantra eleven times a day.
AUM—JUNG, HANG, SA, BHUR, BHUVAN, SWA, KARTIKE NAMAH, SWA,
BHUVAH BHUR, SA, HANG, JUNG—AUM.
Yantra for Venus
2
Health and Diseases
As discussed earlier, number 6s are mucus-dominated. They can have problems
in their lungs, such as congestion. They are emotional and can suffer from weak
nerves. They are extremely sensual and can suffer from exhaustion due to
overindulgences, seminal troubles, or venereal diseases. They can also develop
kidney and urinary problems. They are susceptible to the cold. Because they are
fond of sweets and spicy and oily foods, they can suffer from constipation.
Fasting
Fasting on Fridays, and abstaining from grains, pulses, and sour foods on
Fridays after sunset, is beneficial for 6s.
Friendship
Number 6s are in harmony with 1s, 3s, 9s, and other 6s; they can also get along
with 2s, 5s, and 7s. Fours and 8s are not harmonious numbers with them. Ones
and 3s make ideal friends.
Romance
Number 6 people can have the best time with psychic 1s and 3s. A number 6
woman should choose a psychic 1, 3, or 6 for romance and a psychic 3 or 6 for
marriage.
Good Years in Life
The 6th year, 15th, 24th, 33rd, 42nd, 51st, 63rd, 69th, and 78th are good for
them.
Special Note
For 6s the age of thirty-five is of great importance. They start working for a
bright career in the early years of their life, and by the time they reach the age of
thirty-five, they are able to establish themselves quite well. By the time they
reach forty-nine, they achieve their maximum potential in the material world;
they hold positions of high responsibility at this age.
NUMBER 6 PEOPLE IN RELATIONSHIP
The information given below is based upon a comparison of psychic number 6s
to other psychic numbers. It can also be used to compare destiny 6s to other
destiny numbers, and name 6s to other name numbers. (The comparisons are
based upon like categories.)
Number 6 and Number 1
• Number 6 men and number 1 men
Number 6 and number 1 men become friends easily, and, if they are in politics,
they can benefit each other. Number 6 men, who enjoy life, cannot appreciate
the idealistic number 1s, and their friendship will not last long. This combination
is not ideal for business partnerships, but it is not harmful either.
• Number 6 women and number 1 men
Number 1 men prove beneficial and helpful to number 6 women. They are not
ideal as life partners or business partners. Number 6 women are ideal secretaries
for number 1 men.
• Number 6 men and number 1 women
Number 6 men are promiscuous in their marital lives, whereas number 1 females
want honesty in marriage; they are lovers of truth and believe in true
relationships. For this reason, they do not make good life partners. In business
partnerships, number 1 women do not trust number 6 men to utilize their money
properly. These women prefer to have the upper hand in management of the
business.
• Number 6 women and number 1 women
This combination makes for very good friends who try to please each other. The
slow tempo of a 6 gives the overbusy 1 a breath of relief. The number 1 woman
tries to keep a friendship with the number 6 woman and gives her precious gifts.
In general, 6s and 1s are friendly. Sixes have a good influence on 1s.
Although 6s are a puzzle to 1s, 6s understand 1s very clearly and can influence
and help them. Sixes can serve 1s and be their business partners, but this
relationship will not last for long. It may last somewhat longer if they do not stay
together all the time. This partnership works better if they meet briefly on
occasion to work, travel, and to organize parties, festivals, meetings, and
seminars together. Sixes should be prepared to accept the authority of 1s.
Number 6 and Number 2
Number 6 and number 2 can be good friends. Number 6s help the growth and
development of 2s; they provide them with peaceful vibrations and good advice
but not with inspiration for work. In friendship, 2s are not as helpful to 6s as 6s
are to 2s. Number 6 should, therefore, avoid 2s for any important jobs. In
business, 2s are more beneficial to 6. For marriage, 2s are not suitable for
number 6 men or women.
Number 6 and Number 3
Numbers 3 and number 6 are harmonious. Selecting 3s brings favorable results
for 6s, whether it be in friendship, business partnership, or life partnership. They
help each other. This combination does not work so well in the married life of
number 6 men. This is because a number 3 woman cannot tolerate her husband
having a relationship outside of the marriage. So number 6 men should avoid
marrying number 3 women, but the reverse combination is excellent. Sixes
should select the number 3 for appointment dates or residential numbers.
Number 6 and Number 4
Although numbers 6 and 4 are harmonious, they do not work too well together.
Fours upset and create difficulties for 6s, yet they are also easily attracted to
them. Number 4s resist learning and being taught by 6s. Sixes (women
especially) should avoid 4s for marriage and business partnership as well as for
appointment dates and residential numbers.
Number 6 and Number 5
Numbers 6 and 5 are mutual friends. Fives help 6s with psychological problems
and can be good therapists or physicians for them. Number 5s have a positive
influence on the physical and mental health of number 6s, while 6s help 5s
overcome their shortcomings—their restless and everchanging mind. Their
friendship takes them to unreachable heights in politics and the communication
arts (T.V., film, journalism, etc.). Marriage between a number 6 woman and a
number 5 man is not ideal, but the reverse combination is very good. Number 6s
can enter into business partnerships with 5s and select number 5 for important
business appointments or for residential numbers.
Number 6 and Number 6
Two 6s are friends; but because both are on the same frequency, they do not
inspire each other. They do, however, feel great satisfaction whenever they come
together. They understand each other very well, but they need a number 1, 3, 5,
or 9 native to inspire them. In businesses having to do with cosmetics, fashion
design, interior design, or jewelry, two number 6 natives can work very
tastefully together and become good partners. Marriage between them will not
be ideal because they cannot inspire each other; yet they make a good family
together. Sixes should select the number 6 for appointment dates and residential
numbers.
Number 6 and Number 7
Number 6s always help and inspire number 7s but the reverse is not true. Sixes
help 7s develop their dreamy nature—the number 7 represents fantasies and
intuition while 6 is worldly. Sevens are original in their way of expressing
known truths. This is a little annoying to 6 because 7s are not clear in this
expression and 6s like clarity. Although 6s can enjoy the company of 7s during
leisure hours, during serious business transactions 6s have to stay away from the
fantasies of 7s. Also 6s should avoid the number 7 for appointment dates and
residential numbers. This combination does not make a good couple. Marriage,
however, can work when the 7 is a man and the 6 a woman.
Number 6 and Number 8
Number 6s are always beneficial to number 8s. Sixes inspire 8s and make them
more social and lighter. Eights are otherwise heavy and silent. The playfulness
of 6s give 8s a taste of life, who start taking interest in its luxuries and comforts.
Eights become more creative and expressive through 6s. If both natives are in
politics, art, or film, they achieve success. In business, 6s are advised not to
invest money in any venture started by 8s. However, 8s can join 6s in business
and gain financially. In marriage, 8s are not good for 6s. If necessary, however, a
number 6 woman could marry a number 8 man and enjoy a few good years of
marriage. Sixes should avoid the number 8 for appointment dates and residential
numbers.
Number 6 and Number 9
These numbers always benefit each other. Both numbers are multiples of 3 and
form a good combination. In friendships and in business partnerships, they are
mutually beneficial—6s carefully guard the interests of 9s, while 9s do all the
hard work needed for the joint venture. In music and other fine arts, 6s and 9s
create a very good combination. In politics, a number 6 can be an admirer, a
follower, a public relations person, and a good systematic planner for a 9. This
combination of numbers makes a good couple. They love each other. The couple
is ideal when the 9 is a man and the 6 a woman. A 6 should select a number 9 for
appointment dates and residential numbers.
Ketu and Number 7
Ketu is the ruling entity presiding over people born on day 7, 16, or 25 of any
month, or whose destiny or name number totals 7. The qualities of Ketu
described below are most clearly visible in people who have 7 as a psychic
number.
Rahu and Ketu are two half-planets placed 180 degrees apart—exactly
opposite—from each other. They are the two nodes of Moon, also known as the
dragon’s head and the dragon’s tail. Rahu, the head, has already been discussed
on page 75. Now we will explore the dragon’s tail, Ketu, which is depicted as a
headless torso with the body of a fish. Although Ketu is considered malefic, it is
much less so than Rahu. This is mainly because Ketu is considered to be a
moksha-karak (cause of liberation). It bestows non-attachment to worldly desires
and spiritual tendencies. It gives wisdom, the power of discrimination, and
psychic abilities to its natives. Under its influence, natives become highly
sensitive and emotional; they feel aversions toward material successes and
become disinterested in the psychodrama of life. They feel that they have no
ambitions, no motivations. They become interested in Gyana, the knowledge of
the self, and try to achieve enlightenment through the “true knowledge.”
Ketu is neutral in gender (although some astrologers consider it to be
feminine), tamasic in nature, and destructive and disruptive in character. It
makes its natives inert. It is powerful at night and easily irritable. When Ketu is
not in an astrologically favorable position, it makes its natives cripple. They lose
their power of discrimination and become crazy, in the worldly sense.
Sometimes they seem to be possessed by evil spirits and ghosts. On the other
hand, when Ketu is favorable, natives acquire the power of healing those
possessed by evil spirits and ghosts. It makes them interested in the healing arts,
such as natural healing, Tantric or psychic healing, healing through witchcraft
and the occult sciences, healing through herbs, foods, spices, sound vibrations,
and so on.
Natives ruled by Ketu are talkative; they love discussions and debates and
have their own type of logic. They live in fantasies, are intuitive, imaginative,
and love to exaggerate. They are shabby in appearance, not caring for their outer
image. Sometimes they are well dressed, sometimes not. Their outlooks are
cosmopolitan; they accept truths from all religions and create religions of their
own.
Ketu rules over old age. It gives its natives a wind-dominated body chemistry,
which makes them restless.
Mercury, Venus, Rahu, and Saturn are Ketu’s friends. Jupiter is neutral in
friendship, and the Sun, Moon, and Mars are its enemies. According to many
astrological sages in India, Rahu, Ketu, and Saturn have become more influential
and active during our time, that is, in Kaliyuga (the present era of darkness).
Therefore knowledge of Ketu and Rahu is essential for all those who work with
the predictive sciences.
NUMBER 7
Psychic Number 7
This is the psychic number of those born on day 7, 16, or 25 of any month.
Those who are born on the twenty-fifth are the most fortunate of all 7s.
Because of the malefic influence of Ketu, psychic 7s become indecisive,
disruptive, destructive, restless, revolutionary, and moody. They have to meet so
many failures in life that they are considered unfortunate; it is a number of
upheaval and revolution. But, this is actually not a true statement. Failure is a
key to success. Many psychic 7s are renowned poets, artists, thinkers, arbitrators,
numerologists, reformers, and scientists, although it is true that all psychic
number 7s need more attention than the other eight psychic numbers and also
need correct guidance. Well-guided 7s can make their mark in life.
Psychic number 7 people are truly spiritual and religious. They are kindhearted, social, romantic, sentimental, and noble souls. They are original in their
expressions and independent in their approaches to life. With their philosophical
outlook, they create an individuality all their own. They give new updated
interpretations to age-old values and truths.
They are advocates of individual freedom and personal liberty and cannot
tolerate injustice.
They are good speakers and have an ability to mobilize public opinion in
favor of their arguments; even their opponents have to agree with their points of
view.
They are friendly and gain popularity easily, because they do not discriminate
between rich and poor, king and beggar, master and servant. They are equally
friendly and supportive to all. They are cordial to their subordinates and
students.
Their personalities have many faces—uncertainty is their speciality.
Outwardly, they look chaotic and like anarchists, but inside they are well
organized and have regularity in their lifestyles by which they maintain their
physical and mental health. They are good planners.
They are idealists and materialists at the same time. On the one hand, they
donate freely, live in Utopia, and think of plans for the universal and cosmic
good. On the other hand, they market and sell their ideas for material gain and
care about money.
They are restless because they have an overbusy mind and hyperactive brain.
They love change and love to travel. If they travel, they do so to learn and earn
at the same time. Their business dealings in foreign countries flourish because of
their brilliant ideas.
They love mystery and keep a mysterious environment around them. They
learn from everybody and are very interested in occult knowledge. They have
their own way of explaining ideas and do not follow any one conventional
religion. They create an ideology of their own, a religion of their own that
appeals to their imagination and is based on mysterious (not clear and scientific)
foundations.
They believe in peaceful coexistence and can adjust to any and every foreign
environment. They impress the minds of people they meet for a long time.
Slowly they become popular in the towns or countries they visit. They are highly
social and not commanding. They bring good fortune to their friends, associates,
and bosses; when they somehow break their friendships, these people suffer
losses. They have good memories and are flexible in nature. Like number 5s,
they become a child with children, a youth with young people, and wise and
sober with wise men. They discuss many subjects and advise people freely who
come to them for guidance or advice. Although they do not bind people with any
particular ideology or sect, in their heart-of-hearts they like people who accept
their advice, who follow their instructions.
They love mountains and nature and travel to foreign lands.
They are brave and take risks freely.
They get settled in their lives around or after the age of thirty-four.
They are good writers, painters, and poets and can express their ideas through
any medium. Whatever means of expression they use, they are original and their
subject is philosophy. They are true scientists of life. They want to bring
workable doctrines to life. If they are spiritually inclined, they progress quickly
and become Gurus or yogis. Whether Guru or teacher, whatever they like to call
themselves, they become prominent in their own fields of work. They work hard,
struggle, and face hardships in the early part of their lives. Because they always
underestimate their talents, they become successful and rich later in life. They
have successful married lives and have a special kind of sex appeal for members
of the opposite sex.
They are helped by their friends and profit from these relationships. A psychic
7 also meets one person early in life with whom he or she forms a beneficial,
lifelong friendship.
A psychic number 7 woman always worries about her future. She is anxious,
sensitive, emotional, touchy, and attractive; she has attractive, watery eyes.
Psychic Number 7s are magnetic, sweet, and charming. They cannot be easily
deceived because they can read people’s minds. They do not, however, know
how to read their own minds and sometimes deceive themselves by their
fantasies, Utopias, and ideas. They get easily involved in the affairs of the land
and people they visit.
Whatever they are, they are utilitarians. They do not throw things in the
garbage easily; they make the best use of useless things. Many of their art pieces
are composed from things that people discard.
Psychic Number 7 natives have a tendency to overlook their own
shortcomings and ignore their minor mistakes.
They often are attracted to drugs and are sometimes big consumers of liquor.
Precautions for Psychic Number 7
They should thoroughly understand the nature of projects before undertaking
them. They should carefully judge the positive and negative aspects of these
jobs, evaluate the time and labor they have to put into them, and then accept
them.
They should not waste their energies on undertakings that are beyond their
capacity.
They should accept changes with joy and not just stick to their own ways of
thinking. They should not speak disparagingly about the cultures from which
they come.
They should work independently, try to become self-supporting, and not
depend on others. They should not underestimate their talents and should bravely
start their own projects.
They should remain alert, sincere, and devoted to their jobs and not flow with
their fantasies. They should avoid being shy, being too sentimental, and getting
emotionally involved in the affairs of others.
They should avoid hurrying and making quick decisions. (Number 7 women
should also avoid worry.)
They should avoid wasting time fantasizing and should understand the value
of their time. They should learn to be punctual.
They should avoid excessive smoking, drugs, and alcohol.
They should do bodywork, physical and manual labor, and breathing
exercises, because they overexert their minds.
They should keep flowers and green plants around them, and, before leaving
bed in the morning, they should look at them to gain inspiration and inner
strength. They should practice tratak on a candle flame, a yantra, or a single
point. (See page 127 for an explanation of tratak.)
They should not make fun of their religion or, in fact, of any religion.
They should respect their partners and behave in a friendly manner toward
their husbands or wives, who keep them away from domestic problems and help
their growth.
They should avoid watersports, and avoid deep waters and journeys on ships
or boats.
They should not exhaust themselves by overworking.
They should not change their minds quickly.
Destiny Number 7
Seven is a good destiny number because it helps people enhance qualities that
are inherent in their psychic or name number. Ketu, the ruler of number 7, is a
half-planet and is easily influenced by the vibrational field of the planet in whose
house it is posited. Ketu accommodates the qualities and traits of the planet with
whom it works. This adjustability and nondiscriminating trait of destiny 7s
makes them the favorites of everyone they meet. Their circle of helpers becomes
wide.
Their habit of underestimating their talents and their latent potential makes
them humble, sweet, and charming and gives them human qualities.
Their brilliant and practical ideas attract people like magnets.
They become good speakers and storytellers.
They visit foreign lands and get recognition in the fields of art or literature or
as diplomats. Depending upon their inclinations, which are strongly guided by
their psychic numbers, they can also be recognized as arbitrators, peacemakers,
or spiritual masters.
Destiny 7 people are witty, lively, prompt in making decisions, unpredictable,
everchanging, and always youthful. They are good advisers—even their enemies
accept their advice and suggestions. They emit peaceful vibrations and can calm
people by their presence. They have solutions for all problems and are good in
solving disputes. Their approach is rational, practical, friendly, and creative.
If spiritual, destiny 7 people achieve samadhi and experience states of deep,
uninterrupted meditation. If they are interested in Tantra, they acquire siddhis
(powers), such as clairvoyance, personal magnetism, hypnotic powers, the power
of transferring or channelling energy, etc. Between thirty and forty-five years of
age their intuitive powers increase, and they read people’s minds as clearly as
someone reads a book.
They have remarkable dreams and learn from them. Most of their brilliant,
original ideas come from their dreams or from daydreams, which are their
favorite pastimes. They try to know the secrets of dreams and the subconscious
mind and believe in that mystical power that can transport people into the future
or the past.
Attractive to and surrounded by members of the opposite sex, they flirt with
them in special ways.
A destiny 7 woman is highly sociable and sentimental and more attractive
than a destiny 7 man. She is clever, assertive, talkative (sometimes too much so),
and career-minded. She becomes strongly attached to her mother and other
female relatives, which creates problems in her married life. She also has a
worrying nature and is always anxious about the future. This causes her to pay
less attention to her husband, which is not good for a happily married life.
A man with a destiny number of 7 is advised to not enter into the bonds of
marriage before he is twenty-eight years of age.
Both men and women with this destiny number have one or more
relationships outside of their married life.
Name Number 7
The number 7 in conjunction with any psychic or destiny number, except
number 1 or number 5, makes a good name number. Having the psychic number
the same as the name number enhances the quality of the psychic number and
makes its natives more acceptable, friendly, scholarly, sociable, universal, and
cosmopolitan. If the name number is the same as the destiny number, it makes its
people pioneers—as scholars, writers, artists, social scientists, reformers, or
mystics. Their names continue to be known because of their original ways of
thinking and their philosophic approaches.
When all the three numbers total 7, problems arise. Even natives whose
psychic and destiny numbers are 7 need special attention, guidance, and care;
these people should avoid 7 as a name number. However, natives whose destiny
number is 7 are definitely benefited by having a name number that is also 7. As a
general rule, the name number influences the psychic number. But when the
name number is in harmony with the psychic number, and the same as the
destiny number, it brings good luck.
BALANCING INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL
ENVIRONMENTS
By observing fasts, using the proper spices and gem powders, meditating on the
mantras, and using the yantras, one can balance the internal environment.
Balancing the external environment is possible by choosing the right time for
activities (in the ascending cycle or descending cycle), selecting good friends
(finding compatible numbers), and starting a job at the appropriate time
(observing weak period and strong periods). Balance is achieved by working
with the energy flow that is already available, as described in the sections that
follow. The information that follows applies to people with psychic number 7.
Weak Periods
The months of January and February are their weak periods. During these
months they can lose courage, lose opportunities, or spend their time idle or
engaged in useless pursuits and amusements. They also become very dependent
on others, very shy, and are often misunderstood by their friends and
acquaintances.
They become proud of their material successes and literary accomplishments.
They become dull, careless, and disorganized, which brings them problems
and financial losses.
They mock other religions and their own cultural backgrounds. They become
disinterested in their domestic lives, remain outside their homes, cheat on their
life partners, and become unfriendly.
They meet failures and become restless.
They become unsuccessful in their love affairs.
They work beyond their capacities, spoil jobs by rushing, invest money in bad
ventures, and suffer losses.
Strong Periods
The period between June 21 and July 20 is the best period for number 7 people,
although the entire months of June and July are also favorable. They should start
new jobs, search for better living conditions, sign contracts, and use their
resources for the betterment of their material lives, leaving aside their shyness
and wrong estimations of their talents.
Good Dates
Days 7, 16, and 25 of any month are good for them. Also, days 1, 10, 19, and 28
are favorable because of the friendly behavior of 1s toward 7s. Days 2, 11, 13,
20, 22, 29, and 31 are not bad. They are favorable if they fall on the good days
(see below).
Good Days
Sunday, Monday, and Wednesday are good days for number 7 people. If these
days fall on any of the dates mentioned above, they bring beneficial results.
Favorable Colors
Light green, light blue, and white are the three most favorable colors for number
7 natives. They should avoid black and use it as little as possible. They should
use light blues for curtains, bed and pillow covers and cushions, and when they
want a change they can use light green. Because green is soothing to their
nerves, they should keep plants around them and look at them for relaxation.
Precious Stones
Their stone is cat’s-eye with a chatoyant glowing from the inside, like a cat’s eye
with white fibers. The brighter the fiber, the higher the quality and influence of
the gem. Cat’s-eyes are found in four shades: yellow (the color of a dry leaf),
black, green, and white and green. Of these four varieties, the white and green
stones are best for number 7 natives. In the absence of these, a yellow cat’s-eye
can be used. It should be bought on a Wednesday and given to the jeweler on the
same day. The ring, prepared by the jeweler, should be picked up on a
Wednesday and should be worn after the proper rituals have been performed. It
should be set in a special mixture of five metals—iron, silver, copper, gold, and
zinc—or in white gold and worn on the little finger of the left hand.
They should take pearl powder to help their bodies heal electrochemically.
Meditation
Number 7 people are advised to worship Nrisimha (Narsingha), the Lion
incarnation of Vishnu. They also can meditate on a white background, on the
Cat’s-eye gem, or on a flame (preferably lit from a cotton wick soaked in
clarified butter (ghee). They should learn to do tratak, to stare at a flame until
the eyes start tearing. After tears come, their eyes should close and they should
meditate on the afterimage of the flame between the eyebrows (the third eye or
Ajna Chakra). This will calm their restless minds, increase their intuitive powers,
and give them clairvoyant powers. They should wear white clothing while
meditating.
Deity
Narsingha (Nrisimha)—the Lion Incarnation of Vishnu.
Mantra
Japa
1
(repetition) of the mantra of any planet should be completed within the
ascending cycle of the moon and should be repeated the prescribed number of
times.
AUM—NRING NRING NRING NARSINGHAYE (NRISIMHAYE) NAMAH—
AUM
Repeat the above mantra 17,000 times within the ascending cycle of the
moon.
Yantra of Ketu
2
Health and Diseases
They are susceptible to
infections
indigestion, constipation, and other stomach problems
diseases in the private parts (genitals)
gout, arthritis, caused by aggravation of the humor of the wind element
general weakness and problems with the blood
bad memory after forty-five years of age.
To aid these problems, they should take Vitamin D and E, drink fruit juices,
develop regular eating habits, and avoid smoking and drugs. They should eat for
the taste and benefit from foods, rather then simply using foods to fill their
stomachs and rush off to be busy again.
They should take out time for walks near rivers, ponds, lakes, springs, and
waterfalls to relax their nerves, digest their food, and get away from stressful
situations.
Fasting
Fasting on Tuesday is favorable for number 7s. They should use sweet potatoes
and fruit juices once a day and avoid grains, salt, and spices.
Friendship
Those born on day 7, 16, or 25, and day 1, 10, 19, or 28 of any month are good
friends to number 7 natives. People born on the above dates during January or
February (the weak period for number 7 natives) are more suitable for them and
become more intimate friends.
Romance
People born on day 25 or 28 of any month are the most favored for number 7s in
romance. Marriages between number 7 men and number 1 women do not work
for long periods of time, but number 7 women and number 1 men can be good
life partners.
Good Years in Life
The 21st year, 28th, 35th, 42nd, and 49th are of great importance to number 7
natives. Decisions made during these years have an effect on their patterns of
life. Major events in their lives take place during these years. Otherwise all years
that add up to 7 (the 7th, 16th, 25th, 34th, 43rd, 52nd, 61st, and 70th) are good
for them. Also the 10th year, the 19th, 28th, 37th, 46th, 55th, 64th, 73rd, and
82nd of life are favorable to them.
NUMBER 7 PEOPLE IN RELATIONSHIP
The information given below is based upon a comparison of Psychic number 7s
to other psychic numbers. It can also be used to compare destiny 7s to other
destiny numbers, and name 7s to other name numbers. (The comparisons are
based upon like categories.)
Number 7 and Number 1
Number 7s and number 1s are ideal friends in political, cultural, and literary
fields. Number 1s are regular, punctual, orderly, and disciplined, while 7s are
not. So their friendship brings improvements to number 7 people. In business
partnership, 1s are beneficial provided they handle the management. Ones are
easily attracted to 7s and give them positive vibrations and help. Sevens can
select 1s if the 7s are ready to accept their authority, follow their advice, and
joyfully surrender changing their own brilliant but Utopian ideas. In marriage,
number 7 women can marry number 1 men, but the reverse is not true unless 7s
can stop their flirting habit. For appointment dates or residential numbers, 7s can
select Is.
Number 7 and Number 2
Although 2s are not beneficial numbers for 7s, the latter are beneficial for 2s.
Number 7s are ruled by Ketu, the south node of the Moon. Since Ketu (7) guides
the moon (2) on its path in the ecliptic, 7s guide and are beneficial to 2s. Number
7s are good teachers for 2s; given that 2s, however; always repeat their mistakes,
they are not good students. Sevens can help 2s and enjoy their friendship without
expecting any gains, but they should not select 2s as business or life partners.
Number 7s can, however, select 2s (and all numbers that add up to two) for
appointment dates and for residential numbers.
Number 7 and Number 3
Number 3s are helpful to number 7 natives and give them positive vibrations.
They are mutually beneficial in a friendship or business partnership. They
become friends easily and their friendship lasts for a long time. Since, in each
other’s company, 3s become more traditional and 7s become more revolutionary,
unconventional, and anarchistic, they disagree for a long time. But sooner or
later they compromise; it is a habit of number 7s to make compromises and
adjust to all kinds of beliefs. In friendship and marriage, the relationship is very
congenial if the 7s are younger, and if the 3s are men and the 7s women. Sevens
can select 3s as appointment dates or residential numbers.
Number 7 and Number 4
Number 4s are beneficial for number 7s, if 7s accept and serve 4s as the body
supports the head. Conversely 7s always bring peace, prosperity, and happiness
to 4s. However, if they are not given freedom or the upper hand in the
friendships or business or life partnerships, 4s create obstacles and problems.
The relationships work very well when the 7s are women and the 4s men—7s
are boss, 4s subordinates. However, a 4 as a boss creates difficulties and
problems for a number 7. Sevens should avoid the number 4 for residential
numbers. If necessary, they can use 4 or all numbers that add up to four for
appointment dates, if the appointment is not very important.
Number 7 and Number 5
Ketu and Mercury are friends, but number 7s and number 5s are not. Although
they are easily attracted to each other, they do not provide practical help to each
other in the long run. Fives encourage 7s to perform mischievous acts they do
not wish to perform. These two numbers become indifferent to each other. Only
when a 7 and a 5 are each connected to a group that is involved in revolutionary
activities or terrorism does their friendship become mutually beneficial.
Number 7 and Number 6
Though number 7s are not very helpful to 6s, the reverse is true. Number 7
people are helped in their growth and development by sixes. They bring them
name, fame, and a rise in status. Sixes work hard for 7s as business partners and
help 7s in business. Marriage only works well when the 7 is a man and the 6 a
woman. Number 7s can always select 6s for friendship or business. But when
they do so, they should also provide the 6s with good feedback on their hard
work, help, and cooperation.
Number 7 and Number 7
Number 7s are troublesome to 7s. Number 7 is a number of scholarly people,
and two scholarly persons feel uncomfortable together. They cannot coexist
without arguments and discussions. Number 7 people are also proud, and two
proud persons cannot communicate harmoniously. Two psychic, intuitive,
irresponsible, and sentimental people can easily hurt and irritate each other.
Their discussions annoy each other. This combination is therefore advised not to
enter into business partnership or life partnership. Those with a psychic number
of 7 should not select a 7 as an appointment date or residential numbers.
However, people with a destiny or name number of 7 can do so. All 7s should
avoid the number 7 as an appointment date for an important job.
Number 7 and Number 8
Number 8s are always prepared to help 7s, but 7s, being proud, do not ask for
help. Number 8s like and feel comfortable and quiet in the presence of 7s. But in
their absence 7s, led by egotism, talk badly about 8s and put them down. These
two numbers do not excite each other emotionally. Number 8s can provide
monetary help to 7s, but cannot learn from them. Eights are also beneficial
business partners, who work hard to organize the businesses, meet challenges,
and protect 7s from losses. The number 8 should, therefore, be selected by 7s as
an appointment date for important jobs, for residential numbers, but not as
friends or life partners. In case they are both interested in the occult sciences,
they can, however, manage to coexist as friends and life partners.
Number 7 and Number 9
Number 9s and number 7s are mutually beneficial. Nines teach 7s to be
practical, and 7s—dreamers—add an extra dimension to the personality of 9s.
Number 9, always doubting, is inspired by a 7 and emerges from the darkness of
doubt into the open, lit field of hope. This makes 7s and 9s good friends.
However, since 7 is a number of exaggeration when 7s are inspired, they present
9s with a vast panorama of false hopes, turning them off. But as soon as they
confront each other, 9s forget the shortcomings of 7s and again they become
friends. Nines are thus good for 7s in all respects, except marriage. Number 9
men are good husbands for number 7 women, but the reverse is not true. Number
7s are all right as teachers of their own kind of spirituality, which is
cosmopolitan and embraces the good points of all religions. Sevens can select a
number 9 for appointment dates or for residential numbers.
Saturn and Number 8
Saturn is the ruling planet of people born on day 8, 17, or 26 of any month, or
those whose destiny or name number totals 8. The Saturnian qualities described
below are most clearly visible in people who have 8 as a psychic number.
Among the seven most important planets of our solar system, Saturn is the
farthest planet from the Earth. That it is slow moving is indicated by its Sanskrit
name, Shanaishchara. It is inert (tamasic), cold and dry in nature, and is
considered to be the most malefic of the malefic planets. Its malefic effects can
be experienced when it passes through the twelfth, first, and second houses from
the natal Moon. For example, if the Moon is in Taurus in the natal chart, then
whenever Saturn transits in Aries, Taurus, or Gemini, its influence can be
experienced the most.
As Saturn completes one revolution on the path of its ecliptic in thirty years, it
remains in the sidereal zodiac sign for two-and-a-half years; when it transits
through the three above-mentioned houses, it influences the native for a period
of seven-and-a-half years.
If Saturn is not favorably posited in a natal chart, it makes the natives greedy,
morbid, and gloomy. They continuously suffer from losses and psychosomatic
problems caused by disturbance in their body chemistry. This is due to the
aggravation of wind element humor (a disturbance in the flow of gases in the
body).
Saturn, a planet of darkness, rules over the dark side of human nature, such as
the conscience (or awareness of right and wrong). The sight of Saturn is
inauspicious. When Saturn is well posited in a chart, it brings wisdom,
awareness of right and wrong, sincerity, honesty, love of justice, nonattachment, long-life, fame, authority, leadership, and organizational abilities.
Saturn is a planet of confinement. When it is ill-posited or badly aspected in a
chart, it brings obstruction, delay, humiliation, enmity, bad karmas, lawsuits, and
prison. It makes people lonely, pessimistic, afraid, and subject to premature
aging, drug addiction, and gives them suicidal tendencies.
Saturnine people do not like discipline; they are rebellious and law breakers.
They behave like old men and appear older than their chronological ages. This is
because Saturn rules over old age and is often described as an elderly planet.
Saturn rules over the nails, hairs, teeth, bones, skeleton, skin, and nervous
system.
Mercury, Venus, Rahu, and Ketu are friends of Saturn; the Sun, Moon, and
Mars are enemies. Jupiter relationship is neutral.
NUMBER 8
Psychic Number 8
Eight is the psychic number of those born on days 8, 17, and 26 of any month.
Number 8 is a number of confidence and determination. It is also a number of
mystery—its natives are mostly misunderstood, even by their closest friends and
relatives. They are hardworking and accept challenges readily; when challenged,
they make the impossible possible.
They are introverted, reserved, patient, reflective, deep, serious, melancholic,
and outwardly calm and well-balanced.
They are very sincere with the social organizations, groups, communities, or
families with which they associate themselves and devote their whole lives to
them. They are not helped by others very much, primarily because they like to
do everything themselves and do not like to ask for help or be helped.
They have a strong presence that can sometimes be a little heavy, but they
have distinctive personalities. Their willpower and serious nature give them the
strength to handle all kinds of projects successfully. Although along the way
they meet obstacles, delays, failures, and challenges, their strong individuality,
persistence, will, and patience lead them to the completion of their tasks, and
thus they make their marks on history. They have faith in life and are generally
born to serve a cause to which they sacrifice themselves and serve as tools.
Their lives are full of struggles, and they do not give up before they achieve
their desired goals. Number 8 natives are, therefore, good fighters, politicians,
and scientists. They are revolutionary by nature and can be associated with
major upheavals that sometimes are brought on by destruction. However, their
motives are to serve silently and sacrifice their lives for the benefit of the poor
and downtrodden.
Their lives are unpredictable. Unexpected changes keep them busy adjusting
to the new circumstances. This makes it hard for their friends and relatives to
understand them, and that is why they are mostly misunderstood.
Because of their solitary nature, graveness, lack of humor, inability to
appreciate humor, and their intolerance of jokes, they feel very lonely at heart.
Their lifestyle makes them asocial; they do have a few real friends who are able
to peep into the innocent and tender spaces hidden deep inside of their
personalities. Outwardly they are stiff, but inside they are very caring, devoted,
and gentle people who face all kinds of losses and hardships to protect the
interests of their friends. They shield their friends and save them under all
circumstances, but they also make the worst enemies. When they become angry,
they disturb the whole environment and can make even the strongest person
shake. They do not rest until they have defeated and subdued their enemies.
They keep enmity in their hearts until the end of their lives; they wait patiently
and attack their enemies at the appropriate time. They accept defeat with joy and
change their strategies, but are not pacified until they have taken revenge. They
are extremists and go to extremes, both in friendship and enmity.
They are not satisfied by small success; they aspire for great success and full
honor. They believe their work is their worship and aim at doing big things, in
whatever businesses or jobs they have. They hate hypocrisy and deceit and are
themselves honest, practical, and clever. They become wise at an early age and
have an ability for judging other people. They feel different from other people
and do things that are prohibited by law and society. They do not believe in the
existing norms and come into conflict with social and moral values. They are
materialists and financial security is their primary object, yet they do not run
after money. They love their own ideology and can do anything—take any job—
to make money. They then can spend each and every cent of it on others, without
selfish motive or expectation of return. However, they are incapable of spending
money on themselves or those inside their family circle. Until thirty-five years of
age, they cannot save any money and go through several financial crises in their
lifetime. But after passing this age, they are able to have bank balances. They
love to see their balances grow and do not spend money easily. After they have
earned enough money, they try to develop their mental faculties. They try to
overcome the ongoing internal dialogue in their minds and try to learn the occult
sciences, religion, philosophy, meditation, etc. Although they have no deep and
real interest in religion, they again go to the extreme and gain the deepest states
of meditation, when they are lucky enough to have good guidance.
Precautions for Psychic Number 8
Number 8s should not accept all challenges.
They should trust their friends and subordinates.
They should not undertake jobs that are beyond their capacities, only for the
sake of making money.
They should not indulge in arguments, and they should learn to express their
ideas clearly and to stop talking when necessary.
They should widen their circle of friends and acquaintances.
They should not depend on others for help, because they receive very little
back from the friends, relatives, and other persons they help.
They should drop the habit of being revengeful.
They should remove the mask of gloominess, seriousness, and sobriety and
should learn to smile and try to remain happy.
They should remain active and avoid lethargy, passivity, and isolation.
They should cultivate more tolerance, be more friendly and considerate, and
not get easily irritated.
They should avoid drugs and other intoxicants.
They should avoid canned food, old food, and fast food; eat more coarse
grains and coconut powder; drink more fresh juices to avoid constipation and
other troubles created by the aggravation of the wind element, such as
rheumatism, arthritis, and skin irritations.
They should follow the advice of people more experienced, learned, and
evolved than they are.
They should avoid the habit of brooding over the past and overcome their
imaginary fears.
They should respect both their life partners and business partners.
They should avoid getting involved in love affairs.
They should travel occasionally.
They should not spread rumors.
They should search for good friends, philosophers, or guides and devote some
energy toward their own spiritual growth.
Destiny Number 8
Eight is not good as a destiny number because it brings delays, obstacles,
failures, and humiliation from an unknown source, and it makes life
unpredictable. Those with a psychic number of 8 create conditions for their own
failure and are not surprised by them. However, when these life failures come
from destiny, number 8s lose faith in the virtuous life and act destructively.
This destiny number brings unwanted opposition and enmity without cause. It
brings financial losses by theft and other means.
Destiny 8 makes people perform bad karmas, have accidents, face lawsuits,
and suffer premature aging. It also provides wisdom through sad experiences,
failures, and opposition. Destiny 8s excel under most unfavorable conditions; the
more difficulties they have, the more they shine. They achieve fame and
organizational abilities, hold high posts, and become rich in the latter part of
their lives. If interested in politics, they attain the highest posts; if interested in
the spiritual and occult sciences, they become leaders of their groups. However,
they never get away from problems (both real and imaginary), opposition, and
casual humiliations. They love solitude, but suffer from loneliness.
Destiny 8s are also susceptible to drug addiction and fond of being
intoxicated.
They are not successful in matters of love and earn a bad name because of sex
scandals. They do not lead married lives for long periods of time. They are
always threatened by the fear of rejection, separation, or divorce. This
sometimes proves good for their political careers or spiritual lives. Because they
have philosophical ideas, they can get away from their pleasure-seeking nature
and direct their energies to fight the suffering of their fellow men.
They are destined to make a mark on history—either as innovators in
scientific research, as social reformers, or by bad karmas and subversive
activities (because they become leaders of opposition groups or antisocial groups
and launch revolutions and meet a tragic end).
Destiny 8 people have more endurance than any other number from 1 to 9.
They do not easily suffer from stresses or strains; they are very flexible and
adjust to shocks quickly.
They stay very busy striving to attain the highest positions in their work and
find no time for amusements.
Destiny 8 women inherit property and save money, mostly for their hard times
and old age. They prefer to live alone because of many sad experiences in their
earlier married lives. They have difficulties in finding suitable life partners,
although they are devoted to their families. If they have patience, spiritual
inclinations, and true faith, they can overcome the problems in their domestic
lives and marital relationships. Destiny 8 men do not respect their life partners.
Destiny 8 people are good planners and are fond of success on a grand scale.
If they meet people with favorable numbers, they can reach to great heights in
their careers.
Enmity with destiny 8s is dangerous.
Destiny 8s doubt other people, fear their opponents, and suffer from
stagnation, isolation, and the lack of a friendly environment.
Destiny 8 people have to go through a law suit at least once in their life.
Name Number 8
Eight is only good as a name number when the psychic or destiny numbers are 1,
3, or 6. Otherwise, it creates difficulties, delays, and obstacles, as described
earlier. It makes people lonely and unliked by their friends and relatives. But
when the destiny or psychic numbers are 1, 3, or 6, they are popular, friendly,
and are generally liked by their friends, relatives, and colleagues. A little
isolation helps them to get away from the crowds of people that always surround
them. It brings success, name, and fame, although they do have to face
hardships. But as the numbers 1 and 6 are lucky numbers, the hardships do not
remain so hard for them, and their destiny or psychic numbers are able to
conquer the bad aspects of the Saturnine influence. An individual having 8 as a
psychic, destiny, and name number all at the same time has true hard times and
suffers suicidal tendencies. In these cases, it is better to change the name to
either a number 1, 3, or a 6.
BALANCING INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL
ENVIRONMENTS
By observing fasts, using the proper spices and gem powders, meditating on the
mantras, and using the yantras, one can balance the internal environment.
Balancing the external environment is possible by choosing the right time for
activities (in the ascending cycle or descending cycle), selecting good friends
(finding compatible numbers), and starting a job at the appropriate time
(observing weak period and strong periods). Balance is achieved by working
with the energy flow that is already available, as described in the sections that
follow. The information that follows applies to people with psychic number 8.
Weak Periods
Whenever Saturn is retrograde or eclipsed, number 8s have a weak period.
Additional weak periods include the first twenty days of January, the last week
of February, and the months of December, March, and April. During these times
they suffer losses, get blamed and humiliated, and suffer separations from dear
ones. They also experience mental problems and become stubborn and cynical.
They use intoxicants and drugs. They feel unwanted, neglected, and rejected and
become greedy. They hesitate in taking the initiative, feel stuck, and lose
confidence. They should avoid new undertakings, signing legal papers,
litigation, argumentation, etc., during these periods. They should not change
their apartments or rent new apartments during this phase.
Strong Periods
Although number 8s are always strong, they are especially strong between
September 20 and October 25 and between January 20 and February 20. These
are the best times to start new ventures, complete all pending jobs and projects
for travel and business. During these periods they should plan for their future
and, if necessary, look for a better place to live.
Good Dates
Days 8, 17, and 26 of any month are good for them. Those dates that add up to
either 1, 3, or 6 are also favorable. If these dates fall between December 21 and
31, January 20 and 27, or between February 19 and 26, they become more
favorable. Any job started during these periods, on the above-mentioned dates,
brings beneficial results.
Good Days
Saturday is the best day of the week for number 8s. If the Saturday falls on a
good date within a good period, it becomes really special.
Favorable Colors
Black, dark blue, grey, and purple are good colors for number 8 people. They
should dress themselves in these colors and have these colors around them. They
should use curtains, pillow covers, bed sheets, and cushions of these colors.
Black handkerchiefs always bring them refreshing vibrations.
Precious Stones
Blue sapphire, substitutes for blue sapphire, amethyst, black pearl, and lapis
lazuli are good stones for number 8s. The gem should be bought on a Saturday
and given to the jeweler the same day. The jeweler should make a ring with a
mixture of five metals—one part gold, two parts silver, three parts lead, one part
copper and five parts iron, in an open back setting. He can also make it with
white gold—one part gold and ten parts silver. The gem should be set in the ring
on a Saturday, and it should be picked up from the jeweler on a Saturday. After
performing the proper rituals, it should be worn on the Saturn finger (middle
finger) after sunset or late in the evening.
They should take blue sapphire powder to help their bodies heal
electrochemically.
Meditation
Number 8s should meditate on an idol of Saturn made of the five metal mixture
stated above or on a blue sapphire.
1 Before meditation, they should do their
morning cleansing rituals and bathe if possible. (Meditation is not allowed
before cleansing the bowels in the morning.)
Deity
Seated on a vulture, dark-colored Saturn has a strong presence, round face, big
powerful eyes, and a double chin. His moustache makes him look more malefic.
He has four arms. In one hand he holds a sword, in the other a trident. In his
third hand he holds a club and in his fourth hand he holds the reins of the
vulture. Well-armed with weapons, Saturn should be meditated on as smiling
and granting fearlessness.
Mantra
Japa
2
(repetition) of the mantra of any planet should be completed within the
ascending cycle of the moon and should be repeated the prescribed number of
times.
Number 8s should recite the mantra of Saturn 108 times daily. They can
choose to recite either the Vedic mantra,
AUM SHANNO DEVI RABHISHTHAYE
APO BHAVANTU PITAYE
SHAN YO RABHISRA VANTU NAH: AUM
or the Tantric mantra,
AUM AING HRING SHRING SHUNG
SHANAISHCHARAYE NAMAH: AUM
Yantra for Saturn
3
Health and Diseases
Saturnine people are susceptible to paralysis, rheumatism, gout, deafness,
muteness, depression, anxiety, colic pains, ear troubles, insanity, and asthma.
Their main problems are with the aggravation of the humor of wind—gas in
the intestines, constipation, and blood pressure and heart troubles. They also
suffer from anemia, impurities of the blood, weakness or numbness of the limbs,
leprosy, fever, weakness of urinary bladder, bleeding, pain in nose and ears, and
baldness.
They should massage their bodies regularly with sesame oil or, if possible,
with mustard oil. They should use spices that are also diuretics, such as cumin,
and take morning walks in an open area. Saturn is cold and dry, and they are
susceptible to catching colds and having dry skin. They would definitely be
benefited by neelmani pishthi, an ayurvedic remedy made from blue sapphire
powder, which can be taken orally with honey or cream before going to bed.
Number 8 natives should increase their vitamin A, D, E, calcium, and iron
intake.
Fasting
Number 8 people should fast on Saturday. In the evening, following their sunset
meditation, they should eat khichari—a dish prepared from a mixture of split
urad beans (split black beans with peels) and rice.
4
They can also eat candies made of black sesame seeds and jaggery (raw cane
sugar) instead of khichari, or use both.
Friendship
Those born on days 8, 17, and 26, or days 2, 4, 6, 12, 15, 20, and 24 of any
month can be good friends to number 8 people.
Romance
Number 8s should select 1s, 3s, 5s, and 6s for romance and avoid 4s, 8s, and 9s.
An eight can be a friend, associate, and colleague with a person whose psychic
number is 4, 8, or 9, unless the relationship is long-term. Eights do not help 8s in
any way. Romance between two number 8s does not last for a long time.
Number 8 has a natural liking for people born on days 1, 2, 4, 5, and 7.
Good Years in Life
The 8th year, 17th, 26th, 35th, 44th, 53rd, 62nd, 71st, 80th, and 89th are good
for number 8 natives. All years that can be divided by 4 are also good.
NUMBER 8 PEOPLE IN RELATIONSHIP
The information given below is based upon a comparison of psychic number 8s
to other psychic numbers. It can also be used to compare destiny 8s to other
destiny numbers, and name 8s to other name numbers. (The comparisons are
based upon like categories.)
Number 8 and Number 1
Number Is are naturally attracted to number 8s and provide them with great
incentive and energy. Number 8s are melancholic while 1s are happy and
inspired—they are exact opposites. Eights need 1s for happiness and inspiration.
The number 1 is light, and number 8 is darkness; darkness needs light. But 1s
also serve as enemies by imposing disciplines and laws on 8s, who do not obey
these laws and follow no disciplines. This creates problems for 8s. But as 1 is a
lucky number, it brings much-needed good luck to 8s. Number 8s are
materialists, and 1s idealists. They do not work very well together for a long
time and 8s finally break off the relationships. But 1s are still good numbers for
friendships and romance, if not for business partnerships or life partnerships.
Eights should select 1 s for any relationship. Number 8 women can marry
number 1 men and feel lucky for some time; their marriage is never a permanent
affair with any number. Also eights can select the number 1 for residential
numbers.
Number 8 and Number 2
Number 8 is ruled by Saturn, and number 2 is ruled by the Moon. Saturn is
neutral to the Moon, but the Moon is an enemy of Saturn. They are attracted to
each other. Number 8s are always helpful to 2s and they can remain good
friends, but 2s do not help 8s in a practical way; they only provide verbal
support. Twos are not good for business partnerships and life partnerships,
although they help 8s to make money, and make money themselves. Twos get
easily nervous, and 8s have strong powers of endurance, which helps 2s. These
two numbers can work together on a project in which the number 8 person has
the authority. Eights should select the number 2 for appointment dates or
residential numbers.
Number 8 and Number 3
Number 8s and number 3s have a neutral relationship like Saturn and Jupiter.
Jupiter is a believer in dharma (natural laws), and Saturn does not believe in
laws. Saturn does, however, respect Jupiter, who happens to be a teacher of his
father—the Sun God. Thus 8s and 3s neither harm nor benefit each other. Eights
are self-sufficient and do not ask for help; 3s are teachers who do not advise or
help, unless asked. So 3s are never really involved with 8s, but they remain good
friends. Number 3s can bring joy and happiness into the dry lives of 8s. If 8s can
ask for and listen to the advice of 3s, they can achieve both material and spiritual
success. Number 8s should, therefore, be ready for hard work and select 3s for
friendship and business. If 8s are in politics, 3s can be very helpful. Together
they can do marvellous things for humanity at large, such as bring social
reforms. Number 3s are not suitable for 8s in marriage, but for romance they are
good.
Number 8 and Number 4
Number 8s and number 4s are friends. Rahu, ruler of number 4, is described as
similar to Saturn in nature. People with both numbers are revolutionary, lovers
of justice, and successful only in the latter part of their lives. Number 4s do not
care for money and spend freely, while 8s like to save and are incapable of
spending it. Fours can learn from 8s the secrets of saving money for hard times.
These numbers are very similar: both are misunderstood; both face obstacles,
hardships and opposition; both are unpredictable and changing—their friendship
is mutually beneficial. Their friendship provides the number 8 person with a
sense of fulfillment and helps him or her grow and develop. A number 4 is
quieting and calming to a number 8; a number 4 makes an 8 fortunate. Number
8s should select 4s for friends, business or life partnerships, appointment dates,
or residence numbers. Some Western numerologists suggest that 4s are not good
for number 8s. This may be because they associate the number 4 with the
negative side of 1, the Sun, or because they connect it with Uranus and with
sudden outbursts of anger. Then Saturn becomes the total opposite of 4. But as
we have seen great similarity between 4s and 8s, it is clear that a 4 is the only
hope for an 8—being a true sympathizer, helper, and friend. Nobody understands
8s; 4s do and they provide them with positive vibrations. Number 8s should not
be guided by the numerologists who claim that 4s are not good for them: they
should select 4s. Specifically, number 8 men can select number 4 women for
marriage, friendships, romance, and business partnerships.
Number 8 and Number 5
Number 8s and number 5s have a strange relationship. Saturn is neutral in
friendship to Mercury, and Mercury is friendly with Saturn, but Saturn is malefic
and Mercury benefic. They are poles apart—5 is fast, 8 is slow. Number 5s are
jovial and love humor and jokes; number 8s are serious and do not appreciate
humor or jokes. This creates problems.
Eights neglect 5s and do not support 5s wholeheartedly; 5s also withdraw and
become self-conscious. Friendship between the two is only possible in the
political field and in organizations or institutions working for human welfare.
There they can benefit each other, but otherwise they do not make good
company. Eights should not select 5s for friendships, or business or life
partnerships. Number 8s should not start important projects on day 5, 14, or 23
of any month. Nor should they start a journey of those dates. Number 8s should
avoid 5s for residential numbers.
Number 8 and Number 6
Number 8s and number 6s are very good friends. Sixes are always helpful,
inspiring, attractive, well mannered, gentle, and playful. Number 8s are easily
attracted to 6s and become social and tolerant in their company. In fields such as
art, politics, and film, 8s and 6s make good combinations; they are also good in
friendships, business partnerships (providing 6s have the upper hand), and life
partnerships. Eights can select the number 6 for appointment dates or residential
numbers. Number 6 women are lucky for number 8 men, and make good homemakers. With them 8s can have clean, nicely arranged homes with some warmth,
love, and peace. Although this relationship does not last permanently, it can be
prolonged if the 8 makes frequent journeys to foreign lands and the 6 gets time
to be alone and independent. This practice could help the 8 extend his marital
life with any suitable number, such as 1, 3, 4, 5, or 6.
Number 8 and Number 7
Number 8s and 7s have a relationship of their own. Eights are beneficial to 7s,
but 7s dislike 8s for personal reasons and do not communicate freely with them.
Eights feel comfortable with 7s; the reverse is not true. This creates difficulties
in lifelong partnerships and friendships, and therefore 8s and 7s are not ideal for
marriage. In friendships, 8s have to work hard and serve 7s; otherwise, 7s turn
away. In financial matters they can cooperate, but 8s have to have the upper
hand in management. In the field of life and love, 8s can learn from 7s and thus
enrich their own lives. A number 7 person has an unusual personality and an 8 is
uncommon also. They can work together when the 7 is elderly and the 8 is
young, when the 7 is a teacher and the 8 a student, or when the 7 is the head of a
community or organization and the 8 handles the management. Eights can also
select a house number that totals 7, but the house will become a meeting place
for occult practices, and many spiritual teachers will visit that house. Eights can
select 7s for appointment dates or residential numbers.
Number 8 and Number 8
Two number 8s become strong in combination. When they come together, they
dissolve into each other and try to please each other. And when two number 8s
become opponents, they give each other a good fight. As friends, they inspire
each other and are good companions when both are interested in material success
or success in religion or occult sciences. Although 8s are not teachers or good
students of 8s, as coworkers they cooperate very well and gain the desired
success. The combination is good for business partnerships or life partnerships.
If both husband and wife are interested in a human welfare organization, they
remain together and help the organization. Eights can select number 8 for
appointment dates or residential numbers.
Number 8 and Number 9
Number 9s are enemies of number 8s, but good enemies. Number 9s inspire 8s
to think and contemplate; they are good teachers for 8s and help them grow and
develop. Eights have to spend energy on 9s and help them financially. The
number 8 is a lucky number for 9, but the reverse is not true. In business
partnerships, number 8s are benefited if the businesses are in their own name,
and vice versa. Number 8s can select 9s for friendship and marriage. Number 9
women and number 8 men can make a good combination for some time. A
number 8 woman will face financial problems with a number 9 man. Eights
should select 9s for residential numbers, but 9s may not be ideal appointment
dates for important jobs. If eights select 9 for a house number, they will have to
spend a lot of money to maintain the house.
Mars and Number 9
Mars is the ruling planet of people born on day 9, 18, or 27 in any month, or
those whose destiny or name number totals 9. The Mars qualities described
below are most clearly visible in people who have 9 as a psychic number.
Mars is the commander in chief of the assembly of the Gods. It is respected by
the nine luminaries, the nine planets which are facets of the same divinity. Mars
is personified as a strong masculine figure, dressed as a warrior and riding a ram
(an animal famous for its combative nature). The word martial most probably
has its origin from the planet Mars and its qualities: a strong sense of purpose,
duty, order, and discipline. Mars is famous for such qualities as courage,
bravery, patience, and self-confidence. One of the Sanskrit terms for Mars,
Lohitang, describes its shiny red color, which can be seen with the naked eye in
the night sky.
Mars is considered a malefic planet by astrologers, because the natives ruled
by Mars are egotists who put their own desires above those of others. Its
influence makes them short-tempered, argumentative, lovers of destructive
weapons, restless, unstable, cruel, and violent. They are capable of harming any
or all of their associations. Mars is also thought to be malefic because it creates
difficulties in the marital life of its natives when it is placed in the first, fourth,
seventh, or tenth house of their natal chart.
Mars is related to the blood, as its other Sanskrit names, Kujar and Rudhir,
suggest. It is also related to the muscular system, and to the bone marrow, which
strengthens the immune system by manufacturing white blood corpuscles to
fight off viruses and bacteria. In this way, Mars helps the body’s defense
mechanisms. It rules over courage, which is directly related to blood sugar
levels. Thus Mars provides strength and is related to well-being. However, the
instability and restlessness given by Mars makes its natives always unsure,
doubting, and impulsive by nature. These qualities create a kind of insensitivity,
which makes Mars malefic and makes its natives prone to illegal ventures and
illicit love affairs.
Natives ruled by Mars are lovers of the martial arts, hunting, sports, debates,
contests, public speaking, and politics.
Mars gives its natives a sportsmanlike spirit, which makes them accept defeat
or victory equally well. It gives its natives a dynamic energy that makes them do
daring things, such as walk on fire or fight with a tiger or elephant. Its natives
love to surprise people by their unusual courage. They achieve the peak of their
power from twenty-seven to forty years of age.
The Sun, Moon, and Jupiter are friends to Mars. Saturn, Venus, Rahu, and
Ketu are neutral in friendship; Mercury is its only enemy.
Those natives born on the twenty-seventh are the most gentle and doubting;
those born on the ninth are rougher and tougher, but also more fortunate and
powerful. Natives born on the eighteenth suffer from inner conflicts and become
progressively less clear, more selfish, and quarrelsome With time.
NUMBER 9
Psychic Number 9
Nine is the psychic number of those born on day 9, 18, or 27 of any month. All
qualities of Mars stated above are clearly visible in natives born on the ninth day
of any month.
A planet of fire and heat, Mars creates an intense energy that is not easy to
handle. It makes psychic number 9 natives restless; they are constantly engaged
in activities. They cannot rest until they have succeeded in achieving their
desired goals. They are fighters and fight their way toward the top in any field,
with a competitive but sportsmanlike spirit. They are courageous and love
adventure. They are ambitious and, due to their strong will and determination,
they progress rapidly on their chosen path. They react quickly to situations and
become alert at the first unfavorable signal. Their inner defense mechanisms are
strong and they are always ready to receive opposition. Often they create
enemies by their over-alertness. They like to finish a dispute the minute it starts
and do not brood or ponder over their problems or exhaust their energies slowly.
They are outspoken. The influence of Mars gives number 9 natives a volatile
nature; they are easily provoked and explode more quickly than dynamite. They
do not believe in wasting time waiting for an opportune moment. Optimistic and
independent in nature with an inexhaustible supply of energy, they do not like to
live on charity or be at the mercy of others. They are free, frank, fearless,
impulsive, and tyrannical. They are extremists and believe in startling and
surprising the world with their daring acts, which sometimes leads them toward
a tragic end. They meet even a tragic end with courage and are not frightened by
death or disaster. Hard workers who love hardships, number 9 natives are full of
enthusiasm and inspiration and are always in a hurry to achieve their desired
object. They do not appreciate interference in their work and hate criticism. They
have a great sense of responsibility. Whatever they are doing is guided by their
sincerity and true understanding of the situation, which requires them to act the
way they do. They have good opinions about themselves and like to be
recognized and acknowledged for that. Their dominating natures bring them
resentment and criticism from every walk of life. In youth, they have to face
difficulties and opposition and bear hardships to achieve respectable places in
societies, homes, jobs, or fields of work. But, because of their strong will and
determination, they become successful after they reach forty.
They are like a coconut—hard on the outside and full of sweet pulp inside.
Outwardly, they are hard, disciplined, and unshakable; inside they are soft and
compassionate. They take good care of their subordinates.
Psychic 9 natives are good organizers and able administrators. If given full
authority and control, their resources, hard work, optimistic attitudes, and
practical knowledge can be of help to organizations. Without authority and
complete control, they become disinterested and slowly inactive. They love
honor and prestige and can do anything and bear any kind of physical, mental, or
financial losses for the sake of their honor and prestige. They spend energy to
get affection and sympathy.
Although they are especially devoted to their families and take good care of
their parents, they are somewhat unlucky in their domestic lives and quarrel
frequently with their life partners.
A psychic number 9 man is motivated by sexual impulse. But often, because
he dominates his partner and is possessive, he meets failure and becomes
desperate. His behavior toward his life partner over time becomes erratic. If he
finds a good life partner in his early years, he leads a successful married life. He
wants complete union, deep romantic involvement, and physical pleasure from
his wife. If he gets complete attention, he experiences spectacular progress in
life.
While a psychic number 9 man does not show much respect and love for his
wife, he is very kind, jovial, and friendly with other women. He loses his temper
and mental balance, quarrels, and isolates himself from his wife, and suffers. He
is misjudged by his life partners, friends, and relatives, although his marriage
brings financial good fortune and worldly success. While fond of pomp and
show, he mostly lives a simple life.
A psychic number 9 woman is generally very caring, hospitable, and friendly,
although selective and secretive in her involvements. She can make an excellent
housewife, devoted and loyal to her husband, full of glamor and charming, but
she has less chance for a wholesome married life than does a number 9 man. She
expects total loyalty from her husband and cannot tolerate any kind of flirtation.
Her life partner becomes sick, and she has to spend large amounts of energy on
him.
Both male and female psychic number 9 natives say no before they say yes.
They spend a lot of time and energy keeping their houses and workplaces
immaculately clean and in order, but they cannot create order and peace in their
domestic lives.
They are susceptible to accidents and injury from fire, explosives, and
electricity; they have to go through a surgical operation and a law suit in their
life. They are often wounded or injured and meet their death through wounds or
injuries that become infected or through surgical operations.
When emotionally hurt, they become revengeful, aggressive, and cruel.
They are born with the abilities of leadership and can control very obstinate
and stubborn people with their compassion and human qualities.
When the destiny number and name number are in harmony, a psychic
number 9 person rises to become head of a large organization. A psychic 9
possesses a powerful and dominating personality, has high ideals, is broadminded and creative. Marriage between a psychic 9 and someone who has a
harmonious number makes for a good family—open to all, helpful, serving, and
exemplary. If born into a family in which the numbers of their parents and
siblings are harmonious, a psychic 9 enjoys life, rises in status, becomes famous,
and achieves greatness.
Psychic 9 natives are born to be successful and have all the necessary qualities
to be so. They awe people by performing daring acts in their middle age. They
are thought to be fortunate by people who are not their life partners and close
friends.
Precautions for Psychic Number 9
All number 9s are prone to accidents caused by fire, explosives, storms, flood,
and traffic. They should be alert while handling firearms; avoid going through
hurricanes, storms, and floods; and be careful while driving.
They should avoid any kind of provocation and thoughts of revenge.
They should get rid of false pride and hypocrisy because it brings jealousy and
criticism.
They should not become emotional quickly and lose courage.
They should avoid taking risks and doing daring acts unnecessarily or only to
prove their courage, endurance, and determination.
They should avoid negative talk, complaining, and judging their colleagues,
partners, and life partners. They should love their life partners, create peace in
their domestic lives, and remember the axiom “To err is human, and to forgive is
divine.”
They should avoid surgical operations, whenever possible.
They should not hurry and should overcome their restlessness.
They should avoid appearing stern and learn to keep smiles on their faces.
They should respect their superiors and not enter into unnecessary arguments
or discussions with them, because 9s are easily provoked and lose their tempers.
They should avoid all quarrelsome situations and try not to be negative,
offensive, loud, or violent.
They should follow disciplines that create order in their lives.
They should be careful in signing legal papers and should study them properly
before doing so. If necessary, they should consult lawyers or experts before
signing.
They should not be overconfident about their powers, energies, and robust
personalities, and they should avoid being extremists. They should be careful
with their own power because it could destroy them, too.
They should avoid three of their main shortcomings:
anger
arrogance
aggressiveness.
They should not isolate themselves but rather should widen their circles of
friends and acquaintances.
They should not lose touch with humor at any cost—it will bring them good
luck.
They should keep track of the movement of Mars through different signs of
the Zodiac and avoid starting new ventures, performing daring tasks, or leading
movements when Mars is debilitated, exiled, or retrograde.
They should avoid intoxicants and drugs, because they are prone to addiction.
Destiny Number 9
The number 9 is better as a destiny number than a psychic number. Psychic 9
people are short-tempered, angry, and quarrelsome. Those with 9 as a destiny
number are governed by their psychic number. If the latter is harmonious, they
get over their anger and shortcomings easily and repent for their impulsive,
quarrelsome behavior. In the absence of a harmonious psychic number, a destiny
9 person should choose a harmonious name number because it has a great
influence on the psyche. The practice of some kind of religious discipline can
also help overcome these shortcomings.
They develop spiritually and mentally through the hardships of life; they
understand the meaning of cosmic love and can appreciate true wisdom. If they
set the goal of achieving perfection in spiritual life, they succeed in it and
achieve the knowledge of both mind and matter. They prove to be excellent
teachers. They do not believe blindly in what they learn from the scriptures and
their spiritual teachers, but add the dimension of practical experience, which
enables their students to be truly spiritual.
Destiny 9 and psychic 9 people are both lovers of fine art and beauty. The
difference between them is psychic 9 natives have to learn and struggle to make
their way in the world of fine art. Destiny 9 people, on the other hand, easily
become successful and famous in that field and are surrounded by beauty of all
kinds. They become the favorites of beautiful, famous, and successful artists,
eminent writers, and spiritual masters.
Although destiny 9 people have to face difficulties and conflicts with their
parents and siblings in childhood, later on they are loved by them, and their
noble qualities become fairly well recognized and appreciated.
It is their destiny to be always busy. They become restless when they rest or
are asked to rest.
Interested in everything that makes life enjoyable, they love adventure and
romance and believe that life is meant for enjoyment and the sharing of
inspiration. They become interested in higher and more refined ways of living.
They follow their own inner guidance in seeking truth. They are able to
recognize truth because their intuitions are good and they try to adopt the right
means to reach it. They follow hard disciplines, which they either invent or
impose on themselves to go deeper into the truth. Destiny 9s are not snobbish;
they feel a oneness with all living beings and see the spark of the divine in
everything. They are the protectors of humanity at large and of all living forms.
They become interested in the healing arts and ecology, in addition to their
interests in music, chanting, and the fine arts.
The last in the series of primary whole numbers, 9 is a number of completion
of the soul (consciousness) and is also considered mystical. To have a destiny
number of 9 means to be at the end of the cycle of life and death (birth and
rebirth). If these people become conscious of this early in their lives (the destiny
number normally becomes powerful only after thirty-five), they can accomplish
their goals. They do this by working out their past life karmas and by avoiding
new karmas, which are created by desires for sensual gratification. They can
become enlightened and go ahead on the path of no return.
Destiny 9 makes people spiritually inclined, soft, and humble. Their violent
nature finds a way out through debates, public speaking, and following hard,
self-imposed disciplines. It gives them single-mindedness and the dedication of a
saint; it gives them endurance and the spirit of a sportsman. Those who are not
spiritually inclined express their violence in politics or at work through more
civilized forms of quarrel and combat.
Destiny 9s have to struggle a lot because of their doubting nature, their
negative ways of thinking, and their imaginary problems.
Name Number 9
While the name number influences the psychic number, it does not affect the
destiny number, because destiny is created by past life karmas. When the
psychic number is not in harmony with the destiny number, then the name
number can generate harmony in life—this is why people sometimes change
names or adopt pen names. Nine is definitely not good as a name number for
those with a psychic or destiny number of 9: it will make the influence of Mars
more powerful and create problems in their marital life. But 9 is a very good
name number for those who have 2, 3, or 7 as their psychic or destiny numbers.
For number 6 people it is neither bad nor good, but neutral. To number 2s it
brings strength; to number 3s, good luck; and to number 7s it brings help from
everywhere.
A name number 9 makes people frank, expressive, creative, and independent.
It gives them strong wills and determination and the strength and endurance to
bear the hardships and oppositions of life. For politicians it is a good name
number. It is also good for sportsmen, wrestlers, military people, artists, poets,
musicians, composers, and saints. It brings them fame, honor, prestige, and
recognition. Name number 9 also makes people work hard, and leaves them no
time for amusement and rest. It generates restlessness but also makes them
creative. They use their restlessness to express the restlessness present in the
world outside. They work to create better living conditions in which they and
their world can rest and enjoy. Name number 9 also gives an adventurous and
romantic nature. It makes males more masculine and gives attraction and glamor
to females. For the spiritually inclined this name number is of great help. It
makes them meet renowned spiritual masters, clairvoyants, and psychiatrists.
Sometimes they themselves become one of these and achieve fame for their
intuitive power and surprising feats. All number 9 natives should engage in some
kind of regular religious practice that involves chanting and physical exercises.
Nine is not a good name number for psychic or destiny 4s or 8s.
BALANCING INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL
ENVIRONMENTS
By observing fasts, using the proper spices and gem powders, meditating on the
mantras, and using the yantras, one can balance the internal environment.
Balancing the external environment is possible by choosing the right time for
activities (in the ascending cycle or descending cycle), selecting good friends
(finding compatible numbers), and starting a job at the appropriate time
(observing weak period and strong periods). Balance is achieved by working
with the energy flow that is already available, as described in the sections that
follow. The information that follows applies to people with psychic number 9.
Weak Periods
The beginning of the months of March, May, and June, as well as from October
1 to 21, and from November 27 to December 27 are their weak periods. During
these times they can experience defeats, failures in love affairs,
misunderstandings, setbacks in health, less interest in work, restlessness,
conspiracies, lawsuits, doubts, unnecessary worries, criticism, and an increase in
enmity.
Strong Periods
The periods from March 21 to April 26, and from October 21 to November 27
are favorable and strong for number 9 people. During these times they should
start new ventures, do daring tasks, complete old projects, search for new homes,
start new communes, and travel abroad.
Good Dates
Days 9, 18, and 27 of any month are good for number 9s. Days 3, 6, 15, 21, 24,
and 30 are also favorable. If these dates fall during their strong periods, they
become more favorable.
Good Days
Tuesday and Friday are good for 9s. If these days fall during the strong periods
on favorable dates, they become more beneficial.
Favorable Colors
All shades of red and pink are suitable for 9s because red is the color of Mars.
They should use this color in any way that suits them. Pink bed sheets, pillow
covers, cushion covers, and living room curtains bring good vibrations; looking
at handkerchiefs of any shade of red refreshes them if they feel a lack of energy.
Precious Stones
Coral is the most favorable stone for number 9 people. Those 9s who are very
arrogant and angry are advised to wear white coral in the prime of their youth,
and after forty years of age they can use red coral (Italian), vermilion coral
(Tibetan), or a light coral. They can also use carnelian and jasper (red), red
agate, or sange moose (a red stone).
The stone should be bought on a Tuesday only, before 11 A.M. It should be
given to the jeweler on a Tuesday and the ring or pendent, whatever is made,
should be picked up from the jeweler on a Tuesday. It should be set in a mixture
of copper and gold and worn before 11 A.M. after performing the rituals
prescribed for Mars.
They should take coral powder to help their bodies heal electrochemically.
Meditation
Number 9s should meditate on a picture or idol of Hanuman, the monkey God,
or on a piece of coral. Meditation should take place in the early hours of the
morning, a half hour before or after sunrise (worship of Hanuman is prohibited
before the first hour of sunrise). They can also use a Mars yantra engraved on a
copper plate for meditation.
Deity
Their deity is Hanuman, the monkey God. Hanuman is a symbol of selfless
service. He is devoid of ego, as he considers himself a humble servant of Ram
(an incarnation of Lord Vishnu, the preserver) and does not claim to have any
power of his own. His strength to perform superhuman feats comes from Lord
Ram. Nines should understand this clearly and not feel proud of their powers.
They should learn the lesson of total surrender from Hanuman and practice it in
their own lives.
Mantra
Japa
1
(repetition) of the mantra of any planet should be completed within the
ascending cycle of the moon and should be repeated the prescribed number of
times.
Number 9s should repeat this mantra 108 times a day:
AUM NAMO HANUMATE HUNG—AUM
They can recite the Hanuman Gayatri mantra below eleven times a day, for
protection from storms, fire, or an auto accident.
AUM—ANJANEYAYE VIDMAHE
MAHABALAYE DHI-MAHI
TANNO HANUMAN PRACHODAYAT—AUM
Yantra for Mars
2
Health and Diseases
Number 9 people are prone to all kinds of fevers, because they are biledominated and aggravation of the bile brings on fever. They are also susceptible
to infections, cuts, and wounds that produce infectious fevers, chicken pox,
measles, and skin diseases like eczema and rashes. They can also have disorders
of the blood, poisoning, ulcers, excessive thirst, tuberculosis, diseases of the
stomach, liver, lungs, nose, and ears.
They can also have psychic disturbances and bone disorders. Although they
have strong builds and they do not get sick easily, during their weak period they
can have the problems mentioned above.
Overindulgence in sexual activities without proper attention to food and rest
can exhaust them, weaken their immune systems, and make them suffer from
infections and infectious diseases. They should take proper care of their wounds.
They should avoid oily and greasy foods, pickles, hot spices, and excessive use
of intoxicants and drugs. Number 9 men should use dates cooked in milk. They
can make a drink by mashing cooked dates in milk, straining the dates, and
adding a pinch of well-ground saffron to the date milk. Massaging the body with
oil every day or at least three times a week protects them from skin rashes and
other problems caused by dry skin. A morning walk will help their lungs. Jala
neti (drinking water through the nose) will prevent nose problems; putting one or
two drops of oil occasionally in the ears will protect them from ear problems.
Years 9, 18, 27, 36, 45, 54, and 63 are important for their health; most health
changes—good and bad—occur during these years.
Fasting
Fasting once a week on Tuesday is very helpful for number 9 people. The food
recommended for the evening fast is devoid of salt and grains. One can drink
juices during the day when thirsty. In the evening after meditation, one can eat a
sweet bread or pancake made from chickpea flour, anise seeds, and jaggery
(unrefined cane sugar). For preparing the sweet bread dough or pancake paste,
water or milk should be added according to the recipe. Ghee or butter should be
used instead of oil to fry the breads or pancakes.
Friendship
Number 9s should be careful in friendship, because frequently their best friends
become their opponents. Those born on day 3, 6, 9, 12, 15, 18, 21, 24, 27, or 30
of any month can be their friends. They can also have good friendships with
psychic number 5s or 7s. Their friendships with those psychic natives born on
the ninth, or on the same date they themselves were born, can be intimate but not
very productive. Friendships with psychic number 3s bring them the best results.
Romance
Number 6 women are ideal for number 9 men, and number 3 men are ideal for
romance with number 9 women. Number 9s marry 1s, 3s, 6s, and 9s born during
their weak periods. Although they have a natural liking for 7s, number 9 women
and 7 men never have very successful marriages. This is because the women
expect total loyalty and are very possessive, and the men cannot resist light
flirtations.
Good Years in Life
The 9th year, the 18th, 27th, 36th, 45th, 54th, 63rd, 72nd, 81st, 90th, and 99th
are favorable. The years between the 27th and 36th, and the 45th year, are very
important.
NUMBER 9 PEOPLE IN RELATIONSHIP
The information that follows is based upon a comparison of psychic number 9s
to other psychic numbers. It can also be used to compare destiny 9s to other
destiny numbers, and name 9s to other name numbers. (The comparisons are
based upon like categories.)
Number 9 and Number 1
Number 1s are helpful and good for 9s. A number 9 is restless and doubting; a 1
is assertive and makes the right decisions at the appropriate time. Number 1s can
help 9s to make good decisions and to get away from doubt. Both numbers are
powerful, energetic, and hardworking. They make very good company. A 9 has a
manner of complaining and finding faults in others, and a 1 is beyond envy,
malice, and grudge. Nines have a lot of enemies, while Is are friendly to
everyone. When they are together, 1s work hard for 9s and save them from all
kinds of weaknesses. For this reason their friendships, partnerships, and
collaborations in politics are beneficial to 9s. Number Is also make 9s fortunate,
and 9 women are advised to select 1 men for marriages, friendships, romances,
or business partnerships. Number 9 men, however, do not make ideal husbands
for number 1 women. Although 9s make good teachers for Is and help them
grow and develop, 1s also sometimes teach 9s. Nines are not advised to select
the number 1 as appointment dates for important jobs. They should also avoid a
1 for permanent residential numbers. For short stays, a 1 can be very pleasant
and memorable.
Number 9 and Number 2
Number 9s and number 2s are mutual friends. Nines are masculine and 2s
feminine—they go very well together. Mars is hot, the Moon is cold. Number 9
natives feel very complete in the company of number 2 natives, especially when
9 is a man and 2 a woman. A number 2 also feels strong and inspired in the
company of a 9. Both are suitable for each other in friendship, romance,
marriage, and business partnership. However, a 9 has to work hard for a 2, since
2s are somewhat dependent and shy. Nines can select the number 2 for
temporary residential numbers.
Number 9 and Number 3
The number 3 is one of the best numbers for 9s. Nine—a multiple of 3—is a
number that gives extraordinary managerial and organizational abilities. This is
beneficial for 3s. Number 3s accept the authority of 9s. The presence of 3s
provide 9s with psychological help and inner strength. In turn, number 9s help 3s
grow and develop. In business partnerships, 3s never suffer losses with 9s, but
do not earn much money. Nines are always benefited by 3s who bring them
inspiration and joy and in whose company they feel light, more centered, and
less doubting. Number 9s are therefore advised to select 3s for any kind of
relationship, be it friendship, romance, marriage, business partnership, or for
appointment dates and residential numbers.
Number 9 and Number 4
Number 9s and number 4s are mutual enemies. But as opposites, they also attract
each other. Both are hard workers; and when they approach each other, large
amounts of energy are generated. A number 4 gets a chance to expand, and the
creative abilities of a 9 become more enhanced. A 4 is benefited by a 9’s creative
power. Nines are always involved in social situations, while 4s are by nature less
social; 9s make 4s social. Fours provoke 9s into being more active, and 9s help
4s to develop strong willpower. They are mutually beneficial when they
cooperate for something that is connected to the welfare of humanity at large.
Fours habitually oppose; 9s are familiar with opposition, and this opposition
proves healthy for 9s. Number 9s love to fantasize and 4s live in hard reality;
they do not go together for long. Nines are advised to avoid long-term
friendships, business partnerships, or marriages with 4s although they can have
secret affairs with them. Number 9s should also avoid 4s for appointment dates
or residential numbers.
Number 9 and Number 5
A number 9 and a number 5 have a strange relationship. Number 9 is an enemy
of a 5, but a 5 is neutral toward 9. When they approach each other, they generate
good energy. Fives are always helpful to 9s, but the latter do not leave lasting
impressions on 5s. Because 5s are as quick and restless as mercury, they do not
make good life partners for 9s. In business 5s do not make good partners for 9s,
although 9s prove beneficial to 5s. Number 9s have to work harder and get less
financial gain. In friendship, 5s prove to be favorable to 9s and are their wellwishers. When mutually interested in a particular project, the two make a good
combination. In the field of art and music, they can work as good companions
and help each other. However, in real friendships, 5s are somewhat cool to 9s.
Nines are therefore advised not to select 5s for appointment dates or residential
numbers.
Number 9 and Number 6
Mars and Venus are neutral to each other, but a number 6 and a 9 make excellent
friends and have a mutual attraction. Mars is purely male and Venus is feminine
in nature. The two numbers complete each other. Their relationship is long
lasting, and they can work together in practically all fields. In music and the fine
arts they work very well together because both are good critics of fine art. In
politics, a 6 is supportive of a 9. Both numbers are interested in material
prosperity and accomplishment. Both are honest in financial matters and in their
dealings with each other. As a business partner, a 6 guards the interest of a 9,
while a 9 helps a 6 with his or her work and practical and creative ideas. Number
9s can select 6s for any kind of relationship—marriage, friendship, romance, and
business partnerships. In marriages it would be good if 9 is the man and 6 the
woman. Nines also can select the number 6 for appointment dates or for
residential numbers.
Number 9 and Number 7
Both malefic planets, Mars and Ketu are enemies. Mars is the more powerful of
the two. When they come close to each other, a 7 produces a tremendous force
and draws strength from a 9. Number 7 people lose their identity in the presence
of 9s; they act as very good helpers and friends. Number 9 people are also
attracted to 7s and, with their practical wisdom, help the dreamy 7s. Since a
number 7 is a teacher of mysticism and a 9 is interested in mystic and occult
knowledge, they are mutually beneficial. The number 7 makes other numbers
that associate with it fortunate; the social status of a number 9 person gets
elevated in collaboration with a 7. A number 7 is not a good business partner. In
marriage, number 7 men are not good mates for number 9 women, although 7
women make good and devoted wives to number 9 men. For romance, number 9
men and women can have good relationships with number 7s. Number 9s should
not use 7s for appointment dates or permanent residential numbers. If 9s live in a
number 7 house, they lose their privacy; the house is active and frequently
visited by spiritual seekers, saints, artists, mystics, and famous people.
Number 9 and Number 8
Saturn is neutral to Mars in friendship, whereas Mars is an enemy of Saturn.
Number 8 people, influenced by Saturn, are lawbreakers; 9s, influenced by
Mars, are protectors of the law. Their relationship as friends is not long lasting,
although an 8 proves lucky and financially helpful to a 9. Number 9s should
avoid joint ventures with 8s, if the projects are to last a long time. In short-term
business situations, 9s are benefited by 8s. Nines are generally advised not to
enter into marital relationships with 8s; if necessary, 9 women can marry 8 men,
but the reverse is never good. An 8 can be a good student of a 9, and only in this
relationship is 9 really benefited by 8. Nines are advised not to select 8s for
important jobs, appointment dates, or residential numbers.
Number 9 and Number 9
Same numbers are usually not ideal for friendship, marriage, and romance; yet
they can have a long lasting relationship interrupted only by casual isolation and
arguments. Number 9 added to 9 remains 9—no loss, no gain—but 9 is still a
good number for business partnerships for 9 natives even though they do not
inspire each other much. When two natives that have 9 as their psychic number
join hands for a common cause, they can bring about a revolution. If they are
friends, their friendship remains for a long time; but they will always argue with
each other. Two 9s can have a romantic relationship with each other. Number 9
can also select 9 as an appointment date or residential number.
Summary of Interaction Between Numbers
To determine the relationship and interaction between numbers, find your own
psychic number on the far left vertical column, then the psychic number of the
person with whom you wish to relate at the top horizontal column. The box
where these two columns intersect will summarize the characteristics of that
other person and how that person will interact with you.
The Compound Numbers
Now that we understand the characteristics of single whole numbers, we need to
know a little bit more about compound numbers, to determine the character of
those born after the ninth day of any month. All compound numbers discussed
here apply to the psychic numbers of those who were born on that date. Number
11, 13, and 22 have already been discussed in detail under number 2 and 4
respectively, since they are special numbers deserving a separate description. We
have also mentioned in passing that people born on dates from 10 to 31 are
slightly different from people who have the same psychic number but were born
on a single digit date. Now we will give a brief description of those additional
qualities found in people with compound numbers not present in those born from
the first to the ninth day of any month. This occurs because two planetary
energies in combination respond to situations differently. The process is very
similar to the conjunction of planets, and the effect is similar.
NUMBER 10
Number 10 is a combination of 1 and 0. One is consciousness, the Sun; 0 is
infinity (Anant Tattva). The characteristics of 1 dominate number 10 because it
belongs to the series of 1, which bestows honor, faith, self-confidence, and name
and fame (good or bad) that fluctuates according to karmic law. One is fortunate,
0 is unfortunate. The unfortunate 0 brings struggle, which gives self-confidence
and right understanding to these psychic natives and makes them shine. Zero
creates hidden enemies, but 1 gives the alertness to recognize them. Thus 10 is a
number of success achieved after hard struggle. To remain introspective and
awake is the only solution to the obstacles mentioned. Dependence on others
will cause problems.
(Number 11 has been discussed in detail under the description of number 2. See
page 45.)
NUMBER 12
This is a combination of the Sun (1) and Moon (2), the pair of opposites. As we
have discussed earlier, a 1 and a 2 do not make an ideal couple; people with
these numbers always differ with each other. This differing relationship between
1 and 2 creates anxiety in the minds of those born on the twelfth of any month.
Although psychic number 3 natives are fortunate in getting help, cooperation,
and success in life, this anxiety never leaves those born on the twelfth. Psychic
threes are famous for saying yes to everything and everybody, but they do only
what is within their means to do. Thus they are famous for disappointing their
friends and relatives. People born on the twelfth suffer from this problem the
most. They are torn by the two opposites—the stable and determined nature of Is
and the changing of opinion of 2s. Their saying yes brings them problems,
because they themselves are not sure if they really mean yes when they say it;
the influence of the number 2 may, after a few moments, change their opinion.
People born on the twelfth usually decide things at the last moment and, even
then, nothing is sure about them. They may change their minds even after
starting a job and never complete it. They achieve success in the latter part of
their lives, but they leave an uncountable number of jobs and projects, which
they started with full enthusiasm, unfinished. They change their plans quickly
and often, so that their friends and relatives are never sure of their whereabouts.
These people enjoy their personal lives and are happy, healthy, and prosperous.
They take care of themselves, take an interest in cooking, love to make feasts,
have good taste, and are philosophic and religious. They have the strength of Is
and the gentleness of 2s. They believe in synthesizing and are unconventional,
ready to adopt themselves to all kinds of circumstances.
(Number 13 has been discussed under the description of number 4. See page 80.)
NUMBER 14
A combination of two opposites that are attracted to each other, this is a number
of risks, fear, underestimation, and wrong assessment of the future. One is the
Sun, 4 is Rahu—the north node of the Moon. Rahu is an enemy of the Sun, but
by itself is only a half-planet. As such it has to act according to the nature of the
planet with which it associates. In association with the Sun, its natural enemy
and opposite, it tries to cause affliction. It causes the Sun to be partially eclipsed
and presents obstacles. Those people born on the fourteenth of any month suffer
from inner conflict. Changes come in their life more frequently than in the lives
of other psychic number 5s. Rahu is willing to take risks and the Sun is not
afraid of taking risks either, so those born on the fourteenth sometimes risk more
than other 5 natives. And as 5s are generally gamblers, natives born on the
fourteenth take more risks by gambling or other means that might bring them
financial loss and other problems. A number 1 is gifted with being able to
correctly assess the future, but in association with a 4, in number 14 it creates
problem. People born on the fourteenth have to suffer many times in their lives
with incorrect assessments of the future. They are advised to remain cautious
with their associates and colleagues and remain calm to achieve their desired
goal. The influence of Mercury, which dominates their lives as psychic number 5
natives, makes them fluid and mercurial; they personally enjoy living the way
they do. They are helpful, wise, quick to respond, restless but jovial (though less
jovial than those born on the twenty-third), and benefit from gambling and
taking risks. Because of the influence of Rahu, they are advised to be cautious if
caught in a thunderstorm, hurricane, or any kind of natural calamity.
NUMBER 15
Number 15 is a combination of the Sun (1) and Mercury (5). Both of these
planets are connected with intellect and ready wit. Both love modernism,
material success, and popularity; both are friendly. People born on the fifteenth
of any month definitely like luxuries and material prosperity. They are also
interested in literature, fine arts, and music. Since 15 is a psychic number 6, it is
ruled by Venus. The love of a luxurious, free, uncommitted life, and the love of
sensual pleasures, dominates a 15’s point of view. The Sun brings them
popularity. Mercury makes them move around and travel. Venus brings them to
cozy, expensive, and luxurious places. Because of the Sun they obtain
cooperation and help. Because of Mercury, they are surrounded by recreation
and have more festive occasions in their lives than other psychic 6 natives.
Mercury is fragile, sentimental, and evergreen. Those born on the fifteenth are
tender, emotional, attractive, and stay younger looking than other people their
age. Men with this number become interested in Tantra, magic, and witchcraft in
order to gain the power to enjoy and explore their sensual nature. Women
become interested in Tantra, magic, and witchcraft to get over their sensual
nature. People born on the fifteenth get more cooperation and help from
members of the opposite sex. They enjoy their lives, love flowers and
fragrances, care for jewelry, and have a keen sense of dress. They have pleasant
personalities and charming manners.
NUMBER 16
Number 16 is a combination of two opposites—the Sun and Venus. Although
Venus is a benefic planet, it is also a teacher of demons, the malefics. The Sun
itself is a malefic planet, but it belongs to the group of Jupiter, a teacher of the
Gods. In this way, the Sun and Venus belong to opposite camps (they are natural
enemies). This combination creates problems in the lives of those born on the
sixteenth of any month. Number 7 is ruled by Ketu. And as Ketu is a malefic
half-planet that blinds the power of discrimination, people born on the sixteenth
day of the month have difficulty discriminating, which causes them to suffer
uncertainties and anxieties. The Sun gives them idealism; Venus makes them
hedonistic. The combination of the two makes those born on the sixteenth
idealistic outwardly and lovers of enjoyment inwardly. They become dreamers
and live in their own dream worlds. The influence of Ketu makes them
disinterested in worldly desires and ambitions. If spiritually inclined, they gain
the knowledge of the Self, psychic abilities, and they become ascetics. But the
influence of Venus leads them toward the healing arts and occultism. If not
spiritually inclined, they may join conspirator groups. Although they are always
anxious and afraid of losing their present status, they rise and fall many times.
They suffer from their defeats, but they continue on their own way. They should
watch against accidents and mishaps in their lives.
NUMBER 17
This is a combination of the Sun (1), and the half-plant Ketu (7). Since 17 is a
psychic number 8, it is ruled by Saturn. Thus 17 is a number of struggle,
obstacles, and difficulties. In addition, the Sun and Ketu are enemies, which
gives 17s inner conflict. However, this inner conflict brings them real
understanding and makes them more aware, considerate, loving, and spiritual.
They develop resistance and overcome obstacles and difficulties without losing
heart. They become peaceful and give peace to those around them. Although
number 8 is ruled by the malicious Saturn, 17 natives become benefic and do
something for the suffering humanity that brings them name and fame after
death. Saturnine difficulties and delays do not leave them, but they are not
affected by them and create their own distinctive mark on history. Saturn makes
17s successful in the latter part of their lives, and people consider them
fortunate. Although they suffer in their personal and family lives, they acquire
wealth and prosperity and are respected by others. If they somehow develop
faith in God and adopt spiritual disciplines, they are helped by providence and
their problems miraculously disappear. They are advised to be careful in
selecting friends and in seeking the help of their friends, relatives, and
colleagues. They have courage and are bold.
NUMBER 18
This number is a combination of the Sun (1) and Saturn (8) and is ruled by Mars
(9). People born on the eighteenth face strong opposition, inner conflict, and
obstacles in their lives. But since the number 9 is ruled by Mars, they are tough
fighters and survive difficult circumstances. They become used to meeting
challenges and facing adverse situations caused by the grudges and enmity of
their family members and relatives. They are devoid of peace in their personal
lives and in their family circles. Because of their martial nature, they create bad
feelings with their kith and kin and do not enjoy good marital relationships. They
earn money through unfair means and do not care for the ethical norms of
society. They are financially benefited by wars, revolutions, and social
upheavals. They suffer from tensions, instability, and restlessness. They become
vicious, move in bad company, and enjoy being rough and sometimes cruel. If
these persons are somehow made to follow disciplined lives, they prosper and
rise to high positions. If they learn the lesson of ahimsa (non-violence), they can
make their marks on history. They are advised to avoid disputes with family
members and friends. They are materialists and acquire special skills to earn
money. They become financially well off after forty years of age and are
rewarded for their efforts in the latter part of lives.
NUMBER 19
This is a combination of the Sun (1) and Mars (9) that is ruled by the Sun (1).
People born on the nineteenth are lucky psychic number 1 people. The Sun and
Mars are friends, and the Sun is also exalted in Aries, a zodiac sign ruled by
Mars. These people are full of enthusiasm, happiness, and inspiration and
achieve success in every field of life. They are full of life force and are honored
by their friends and colleagues. Because of the Sun’s influence, they are wise;
because of Mars, they are able to confront odd situations and meet challenges.
Their hard work and persistence make them successful. But this combination,
and the influence of Mars, makes them obstinate and short-tempered, which
creates problems in their married lives. They have all the qualities of number 1
people and are more fortunate than those born on the tenth of any month, yet
they are less fortunate than those born on the twenty-eighth of any month. In
general people born on the nineteenth enjoy high status, honor, success, and
material prosperity. They are helpful, cooperative, and generous.
NUMBER 20
Two combined with 0 makes 20, a number of impatience. Number 2 people are
generally impatient, nervous, dependent, and quick-changing. Zero adds
responsibilities, which will tire these 2s. They are tender and emotional, like
other 2s, but they are more cooperative, loving, and caring. They do not get
properly rewarded, however, for their efforts and loving care. They experience
unnecessary delays with their projects and suffer from anxieties and disgust.
Their married lives are not very successful, and they neglect their family
members and relatives. For peace of mind and to become successful, they are
advised to develop interests in the spiritual field.
NUMBER 21
Although those born with the number 21 are psychic number 3s, they differ from
other psychic number 3s. The combination of 2 with 1 here is different than in
12. Twenty-one belongs to the series of 20 and therefore is more influenced by
the number 2, even though 21 is ruled by Jupiter. The 2 provides gentleness, and
the 1 provides the potential to become successful in life. More social than other
psychic number 3 natives, they become popular in all circles and with members
of the opposite sex. They mix more freely than other 3s and are able to overcome
their difficulties and establish themselves in service or business successfully.
With the number 2, they can work as arbitrators and diplomats; with the number
1, they are able to succeed and rise. In this combination, the 1 helps the 2. If
these people develop a little patience, they can become fortunate and make
steady progress.
(Number 22 has been discussed under the description of number 4. See page 81.)
NUMBER 23
This combination of the Moon (2) and Jupiter (3) is supposed to be a number of
success. People born on the twenty-third of any month are number 5s and are
thus ruled by Mercury, which makes them intelligent, hardworking, well
informed, and generally interested in learning about everything. They have good
chances of success in their professions and become popular. They are benefited
by members of the opposite sex and helped by officers and other people in
positions of authority. Although they are a little moody, short-tempered, and
love to take risks, they are liked by people and achieve success in their lives.
They live in prosperity and promote new ideas. They achieve name and fame,
rise in their communities, and are known for their jovial nature.
NUMBER 24
A combination of two opposites, the Moon (2) and Rahu (4), 24 is considered to
be a lucky number because 2 and 4 make 6, and 6 is a lucky number. Venus
rules number 6, and when 6 is derived from a 2 and 4 combination the person
has the influence of 2 and 4 and the behavior of a 6. This particular number 6 is
also lucky because the 2 and 4 are in a harmonious relationship. Although 24s
have all the qualities of psychic number 6 natives and are considered 6s, they
differ from those born on the fifteenth or sixth of any month. Four is a number of
difficulty and change, and 2 is a number of change. So the lives of those born on
the twenty-fourth undergo change very often. The influence of the 2 makes them
helping and sincere; the influences of the 4 makes them strong and persistent.
They are secretive and can keep the secrets of others. They are benefited by
members of the opposite sex, yet they also suffer from failures brought to them
by betrayal. They are gentle and helpful. If their destiny numbers and name
numbers are in harmony with their psychic numbers, they can enjoy ordinary
family lives.
NUMBER 25
Twos and 5s are not a good combination; the relationship between the Moon (2)
and Mercury (5) is a strange one. The Moon is neutral toward Mercury, but
Mercury has enmity with the Moon. This strange relationship creates a self-
condemning nature. Twenty-five, which is a 7, is ruled by Ketu. Although it is a
number that brings luck to others, psychic number 7 natives suffer a lot in the
early years of their lives. The numbers 2 and 5 give them a fluctuating nature.
This situation is compounded by the influence of Ketu, a planet of ambiguity.
People born on the twenty-fifth of any month are more dreamy, imaginative,
artistic, moody, and philosophic than other number 7s. They try to understand
the mysteries of nature. They develop methodologies of their own and become
founders of religious institutions. They gain experience and understanding
through their failures and ultimately settle down. Slowly and gradually they
obtain secure positions with the help of their friends, relatives, and colleagues.
Those born on this date have philosophic outlooks. They are generally proud of
their artistic talents and successes, which are achieved after great struggle. They
are not lucky in love affairs, but obtain financial gains through marriage. They
are advised to avoid risky ventures.
NUMBER 26
This combination of 2 and 6, the Moon (2) and Venus (6), gives these
individuals a tendency to depend on members of the opposite sex. Two is a
number that is dependent on others and so is number 6. People born on the
twenty-sixth of any month are psychic number 8s. They are ruled by Saturn and
are considered to be materialists and fatalists. They have to face many
difficulties and much opposition in their lives, especially during their early
years. Numbers 2 and 6 both give attraction to members of the opposite sex. This
attraction is the main cause of problems and misfortunes in the lives of these 8s.
A number 26 is advised to be careful in selecting a life partner. Marriage to a
number 8 born on the seventeenth or eighth of any month is better than marriage
to other numbers. Although they are hedonists, after marriage they settle down,
become very sincere, and give up their earlier relationships. If 26s marry any
numbers except 1s, 3s, 6s, and 8s, they suffer and eventually turn off to their
family lives. If they select 1s, 3s, and 6s, they can achieve good fortune and
happy marital lives. Those born on the twenty-sixth excel and acquire top
positions in the latter part of their lives. They are hard working and stubborn.
The men are revengeful and cruel when they have enmity toward other numbers.
NUMBER 27
Number 27 is a combination of two strong opposites, 2 and 7, the Moon and
Ketu. This provides 27s with initiative and an inexhaustible energy. The
numbers 2 and 7 are both very dependent on other numbers. If those born on the
twenty-seventh can somehow become independent—that is, develop free will
and an independent nature—they can perform all jobs successfully, because both
numbers are good for making plans. They can make good plans that can benefit
them in their businesses and in family matters. Since 2 and 7 total 9, 27 is ruled
by the planet Mars, which makes 27s powerful, commanding, and authoritative.
They carry out each and every project in a well-planned way and achieve
success.
They are loving people, devoted to their families or the organizations to which
they belong. Both 2 and 7 are emotional and intuitive numbers. If these people
develop stability, they can become very successful in the material field.
NUMBER 28
A combination of Moon (2) and Saturn (8) energies, 28 is a number of struggle.
People born on this date have to face many obstacles and much opposition. But
since the combination of 2 and 8 totals 1, then the number 28 is ruled by the Sun,
a lucky number that brings success. This success comes to these 28s once they
have faced struggles and conquered opposition. Those people born on the
twenty-eighth gain more experience and are gentler and less authoritative,
commanding, and demanding than other number 1s. They are more able to serve,
and they gain more cooperation and help than other 1s. This widens their circle
of friends and acquaintances. Psychic numbers 2 and 8 natives are both servants,
are both obstinate, and are good and tough fighters. The combination of 2 and 8
in 28 makes these people more vulnerable and successful fighters. They lead the
battle that advocates justice for the downtrodden and become good politicians
and political heroes. They leave their marks on history. The influence of the
number 2 makes them philosophical, while the influence of 8 makes them
interested in material progress and modernization. They develop unique ways of
combining both material and spiritual progress and are wholistic in their
attitudes.
NUMBER 29
A combination of the energies of the Moon (2) and Mars (9), 29 is supposed to
be a number that brings basic insecurity and uncertainty in life. Since 29 is the
combination of 2 and 9, which totals to 2, 29 is a 2 and is therefore influenced
more strongly by the Moon. On the material plane, those born on the twentyninth of any month achieve success and rise to high positions. However, their
personal lives, especially their marital lives, are not satisfactory. The changing
nature the number 2 brings, and the sentimentality the number 9 brings, are
dominant in their lives. With a good destiny number and a harmonious name
number, a 29 is able to select the right partners in business and life. With their
help and cooperation, this individual is able to make progress. But if the destiny
number or name number is not in harmony, the person gets involved in the
wrong things and does not lead an ethical or moral life. Although 29s achieve a
high position in their field of work, they feel insecure and lonely. The influence
of Mars makes them restless and doubting. Men born on this date should be very
conscious in selecting their life partners, because women are the main cause of
problems and sorrows in their lives. Women born on this date should fast on
Mondays or Thursdays if they are interested in meeting a nice and harmonious
husband. They should try to understand the feelings of their life partners and not
think only about their own emotional highs and lows. In general, all psychic
natives born on the twenty-ninth are loving and warm-hearted. They are able to
attract men and women with high aesthetic sensibilities and are favored by
people of authority. They are advised to avoid irritation and short-temperedness;
they should follow some spiritual discipline and develop true faith in God. They
should try to create a family environment for themselves. Men belonging to this
number should become friendlier and more tolerant with their family members
and relations because they need their help and cooperation. They should not
postpone their marriage plans and should marry early in their lives; late marriage
brings them unhappiness and mental problems.
NUMBER 30
Psychic number 3 natives born on this day are somewhat less fortunate than
other psychic number 3 natives because of the association with the zero. We
cannot call them unlucky, yet zero slows down their progress and reduces the
number of their friends. But because 3s are hardworking, number 30s are able to
live comfortably and make enough money without much hard work. Like other
number 3s, they are social and universal helpers, but their lives are more
influenced by members of the opposite sex. They are constantly engaged in work
and do not earn money through one source alone. Sometimes they start so many
projects at the same time that they must leave many jobs incomplete. The
influence of 0 makes them waste energy and leave jobs undone. As they are
ruled by Jupiter (3), those born on the thirtieth are thinkers; they use more
mental energy than other 3s. Since they have to struggle a lot during their early
years, they develop special ways of looking at things and formulate philosophies
of their own. They are not bound by the religions into which they are born and
over time become more friendly to other religions and philosophies. Since they
are critical by nature, they make fun of all religions including their own, and
they advocate universal love and brotherhood. But in their personal lives they
follow their own ways and methods, which are rooted in the traditions into
which they were born. If their destiny numbers and name numbers are
harmonious, they get help and cooperation and excel. They are benefited by
social institutions and organizations that can use their creative energies and
talents. They are advised to not be selfish and to join institutions or organizations
that work for the welfare of mankind.
NUMBER 31
Thirty-one is a combination of the numbers 3 (Jupiter) and 1 (Sun). Number 3 is
a good number, and 1 itself also is a good number. However, the combination of
the two is not very beneficial for those born on the thirty-first of any month
because this combination adds up to the number 4, which is ruled by Rahu, a
malefic half-planet. Famous for creating troubles, Rahu makes 4s different from
other individuals; it creates uncertainty in their lives and brings sudden,
unexpected changes. These changes are both good and bad. This makes people
born on the thirty-first of any month feel uncertain and lonely. They are
misunderstood by their friends and colleagues. Because they lack friendly and
inspiring environments, they isolate themselves, become less social, less
popular, and sometimes join revolutionary groups that use violence. They
become obstinate, secretive, and commanding. They impose their ideas on
others. The presence of the number 3 makes them a little selfish, and the
presence of 1 makes them authoritative. Number 1 also gives them qualities of
leadership. Although psychic number 3 and psychic number 1 natives are
hardworking, social, and extroverts, those born on the thirty-first are shy and less
social, yet hard workers. They have to struggle a lot before they become known
in society. They love modern ideas and rebel against old values. They are lovers
of justice but do not use just means to achieve it. They love to oppose popular
ideas and love to argue in favor of unpopular ones. If they become interested in
politics, they join the opposition.
SUMMARY
By understanding the significance of the compound numbers from 11 to 31, the
numerologist can see more vividly the character of psychic natives born on any
date of any month.
The purpose of numerology is to provide general information about human
beings, who, although alike in physical makeup, differ in their way of seeing the
world. Their complicated behaviors can be seen in light of their astrological
configurations and the relationships between their psychic, destiny, and name
numbers. Numerology aims to educate people about their good and bad points; it
gives them advice on avoiding habits that create problems in their lives. It guides
them from the darkness, which comes from an ignorance about the effects of the
planets on their lives. It provides them with a method of working with these
influences by using colors and gemstones. It also provides them with advice
about their general mental and physical health, the types of ailments from which
they can suffer, and gives them a way to avoid those diseases.
Projecting Into the Future
Numerology can also be helpful in learning about events over the coming years.
Although astrology does have a better method of projecting into the future, a
general understanding about future events can be obtained from numerology.
As stated in the introduction, numerology is not a complete science: a good
numerologist should also learn such arts as astrology, palmistry, graphology, and
physiognomy to achieve more insight into human behavior patterns.
What follows is one method for projecting yearly calculations. Note down on
paper the following information:
month of birth
date of birth
last two digits of the year in question
number of the day of the week on which the birthdate falls in that year.
For example, I want to make a yearly calculation for an individual born on
May 12, 1934. The year I want to examine is 1991. This is done by adding the
following numbers:
month of birth = 5
date of birth = 12
the year for which the chart is to be made = 91
In 1991 May 12 falls on a Sunday, which is a 1.
1
5 + 12 + 91 + 1 = 109 = 10 = 1
The number that results from this addition, 1, becomes the number of the
projected year. To find out the significance of having 1 as a year number, consult
the pages that follow. This summary is very general and cannot be taken to
represent the total projected year, but it can give an overall idea of what is to
come.
With the single digit number you obtained from this calculation, one may use
the information that follows to examine what the year in question holds.
Year Number 1 (ruled by the Sun)
Since number 1 is an important number, a year with this number is also
important. During this period, difficulties and problems that have existed for
many years will be lessened. One will feel lucky and receive help from many
people, especially from people in authority and government officers.
During this year, one will
Feel healthier mentally and physically and will move on the path of
progress.
Achieve success in job and business, if one gets organized and plans ahead.
Have an important change in life; all changes will be for the betterment of
the present living situation.
Meet new people who will prove helpful in the future.
Remain free from fear and anxieties.
Work hard with less stress.
Attain name and fame.
This year is also good for reading, writing, appearing in competitions, starting
a new financial venture, buying a machine. If one is a writer, musician, or
painter, the year will prove very significant for new compositions.
Year Number 2 (ruled by the Moon) will bring
An increase in personal magnetism.
New friends, who will be helpful in future.
Less worry and stress.
Emotionality but also more practicality.
Benefit from real estate.
A new house or apartment.
Changes in the way one thinks.
Improved living situations, through patience and good planning.
During this year, one should avoid unnecessary worry and hurry.
Year Number 3 (ruled by Jupiter) will bring
More knowledge and practical wisdom.
Time to complete old projects.
New friends and acquaintances.
This year will also be
Auspicious; it brings financial gain, name, and honor. It makes one express
oneself more clearly. It is especially meaningful for writers, speakers, and
orators. These people should be careful in their writings or public speaking.
The influence of Jupiter can give them a frankness and fearlessness that
may bring them trouble in the future.
Not good for the signing papers or contracts by businessmen and those
involved in any kind of law suit.
Good for business or starting a new venture.
Good for planning and completing jobs.
A year for getting a job promotion.
A time to test friends before trusting them.
Year Number 4 (ruled by Rahu) will bring
Success, with difficulties.
Strength, undisturbed by unforeseen troubles and obstacles.
Alertness, hard work, and calm.
Financial gains, increased sources of income, and financial stability.
New ventures, such as a new house or apartment.
This year will also be
Auspicious. One gets married. If one does not want to marry officially, one
gets a life partner. Married people with no children get a child.
Good for relationships with friends and life partners.
Not successful for love affairs and romance.
Good for relations with government officials and men of authority.
Good for traveling.
Good for spiritual pursuits and religious activities.
Year Number 5 (ruled by Mercury) will be
A year of success and financial stability; it brings an increase in one’s circle
of friends.
Good for business and businessmen.
Good for traveling and for going abroad on business or for enjoyment.
Good for partnership in business.
A time to be conscious while talking.
A time to be conscious while signing a deal or a contract.
Good for those employed in the media and communications business:
writers, poets, actors, entertainers, radio artists, and journalists.
Good for appearing in competitions and taking risks.
Memorable.
Year Number 6 (ruled by Venus) will be
Good for family relationship; free from the problems of household affairs.
Good for romance and conceiving a child.
Good for interior decorators, actors, musicians, poets, and painters as well
as for film makers, theatre people, and those involved in showbusiness.
Good for jewelers and people involved in the perfume business.
Good for spending on decoration, entertainment, and enjoyment.
A time to get employment, for those unemployed.
A time to deal with items of beauty, sensual enjoyment, worldly pleasure,
and gifts.
This year also brings the chance of getting unexpected wealth and a raise in
salary.
Year Number 7 (ruled by Ketu) will be
Misunderstandings and difficulties.
Difficulties in business. More work, less profit.
Success in such things as court cases, law suits.
It will also be a year to
Test friends and helpers.
Avoid unnecessary discussion.
Devote energy to the healing arts, astrology, practice of Tantra, magic, and
hypnosis.
Take fewer risks.
Be conscious in love affairs and romance; there are chances of getting a bad
name.
Remain optimistic and undisturbed if one desires success in jobs
undertaken. A patient and optimistic attitude will solve problems and
remove obstacles. The difficulties are only a test.
This will also be a good year for healers, astrologers, and those involved in
occult sciences.
Year Number 8 (ruled by Saturn) will be
Good for politicians, social workers, and people involved in the iron and
steel industry. It brings the opportunity to start a new venture.
Poor in the area of health. Precautions are needed. Avoid stress, excitement,
and anxiety. Use more juices and spices, which clean the blood and
strengthen the heart. Use pearl powder (mukta pishti) and powdered blue
sapphire (neelam pishti).
A time to gain success in worldly matters; one should use one’s energy to
become more creative. The right use of energy will bring good luck.
Good for gaining victory over enemies, and in law suits.
A time to become independent, to rely on one’s own resources and
judgement.
Good for social work.
Year Number 9 (ruled by Mars) will bring
A year of completion, success, and good fortune.
A time for fulfillment of desires.
A time for organizing oneself.
A year of gaining favors from men of authority and government officials.
It will also bring
Slight disagreements; a harmful exchange of harsh words with an officer is
possible.
Success in combat and competitions.
Honor by society.
The chance of unexpected financial gains, through a lottery, inheritance, or
other source.
During this year, one should also avoid doubting and perfectionism. By
devoting more energy to spiritual pursuits, the year will bring good results.
Relationships and Characteristics of Numbers
This summation of characteristics and relationships applies to the psychic
numbers listed in the top horizontal column.
Footnotes
Introduction
1. For a further explanation of the role of zero, see Tools for Tantra by Harish Johari (Destiny Books,
Rochester, VT, 1986), p. 50.
2. There is a basic problem in determining the psychic number. According to the ancient Indian
(Hindu) system, the date changes 1 hour before dawn—1-1/2 to 2 hours before the actual sunrise. However,
in today’s world all countries have agreed to correspond with Greenwich standard time and to change the
date at 12:00 A.M. (midnight). So when ascertaining the date of birth, one should also see what time of day
or night the person in question is born. For example, under the present system a person born at 2 A.M. the
night of the twelfth is counted as a person born on the thirteenth and is considered a number 4. However,
under the Hindu system, because the birth was several hours before sunrise, this person would be counted as
born on the night of the twelfth and thus considered a number 3. In such a case, one should watch carefully
to see if the tendencies of the person concerned are more like those of a number 3 or number 4 person.
An additional concern: in summer, the sun rises in the northwestern hemisphere much earlier than in
winter. So it should be ascertained whether the birth is in the late hours of the summer night or the winter
night. If it is earlier than two hours before the sunrise time, the date which is officially associated with the
next day should be discarded. For example, for a person born at 3:30 A.M. on June 3 (during summer), the
date which changed after midnight would be correct.
However, a person born at 3:30 A.M. on December 3 would be judged by the date of the previous day,
December 2. This is because in December, 3:30 A.M. is about 4 hours before the sunrise. The day and date
should change at the same time. Thus, many people who say they were born on a specific date really
weren’t and actually belong to a different numerological group.
3. Nakshatra is known as Lunar Mansion in English. It is also known as Lunar Constellations. For
more information, see The Healing Power of Gemstones by Harish Johari (Destiny Books, Rochester, VT,
1988), pp. 20-24 .
The Vedic Square
1. Keith Critchlow, Islamic Patterns: An Analytical and Cosmological Approach (London: Thames
& Hudson, 1984).
2. The Moon and Ketu are opposites in Indian astrology.
The Sun and Number 1
1. For further information on gems and rituals, see The Healing Power of Gemstones by Harish
Johari (Destiny Books, Rochester, VT, 1988).
2. For a more detailed explanation of japa, see Tools for Tantra by Harish Johari (Destiny Books,
Rochester, VT, 1986), p. 30.
3. The numerical yantras are mystical diagrams of planetary energy. They are famous as magic
squares. For further information, see The Healing Power of Gemstones by Harish Johari Pestiny Books,
Rochester, VT, 1988).
4. For more information, see The Healing Power of Gemstones by Harish Johari (Destiny Books,
Rochester, VT, 1988).
The Moon and Number 2
1. For a description of the Soma Chakra, see Chakras by Harish Johari (Destiny Books, Rochester,
VT, 1987).
2. Moon natives are those with a psychic number 2, those whose rising sign or ascendant is in
Cancer, or those whose sun sign is in Cancer.
3. For a more detailed explanation of japa, see Tools for Tantra by Harish Johari (Destiny Books,
Rochester, VT, 1986), p. 30.
4. The numerical yantras are mystical diagrams of planetary energy. They are famous as magic
squares. For further information, see The Healing Power of Gemstones by Harish Johari (Destiny Books,
Rochester, VT, 1988).
Jupiter and Number 3
1. For a more detailed explanation of japa, see Tools for Tantra by Harish Johari (Destiny Books,
Rochester, VT, 1986), p. 30.
2. The numerical yantras are mystical diagrams of planetary energy. They are famous as magic
squares. For further information, see The Healing Power of Gemstones by Harish Johari (Destiny Books,
Rochester, VT, 1988).
3. See The Healing Power of Gemstones by Harish Johari (Destiny Books, Rochester, VT, 1988) for
further information about gem remedies.
4. This is a collection of five stories from Skandha Purana that emphasizes the value of adherence to
truth under all circumstances.
Rahu and Number 4
1. For further information, see The Healing Power of Gemstones by Harish Johari (Destiny Books,
Rochester, VT, 1988).
2. For a more detailed explanation of japa, see Tools for Tantra by Harish Johari (Destiny Books,
Rochester, VT, 1986), p. 30.
3. The numerical yantras are mystical diagrams of planetary energy. They are famous as magic
squares. For further information, see The Healing Power of Gemstones by Harish Johari (Destiny Books,
Rochester, VT, 1988).
Mercury and Number 5
1. For a more detailed explanation of japa, see Tools for Tantra by Harish Johari (Destiny Books,
Rochester, VT, 1986), p. 30.
2. The numerical yantras are mystical diagrams of planetary energy. They are famous as magic
squares. For further information, see The Healing Power of Gemstones by Harish Johari (Destiny Books,
Rochester, VT, 1988).
Venus and Number Six
1. For a more detailed explanation of japa, see Tools for Tantra by Harish Johari (Destiny Books,
Rochester, VT, 1986), p. 30
2. The numerical yantras are mystical diagrams of planetary energy. They are famous as magic
squares. For further information, see The Healing Power of Gemstones by Harish Johari (Destiny Books,
Rochester, VT, 1988).
Ketu and Number 7
1. For further information, see The Healing Power of Gemstones by Harish Johari (Destiny Books,
Rochester, VT, 1988).
2. For a more detailed explanation of japa, see Tools for Tantra by Harish Johari (Destiny Books,
Rochester, VT, 1986), p. 30.
Saturn and Number 8
1. For further information, see The Healing Power of Gemstones by Harish Johari (Destiny Books,
Rochester, VT, 1988).
2. For a more detailed explanation of japa, see Tools for Tantra by Harish Johari (Destiny Books,
Rochester, VT, 1986), p. 30.
3. The numerical yantras are mystical diagrams of planetary energy. They are famous as magic
squares. For further information see The Healing Power of Gemstones by Harish Johari (Destiny Books,
Rochester, VT, 1988).
4. This is a recipe for one person. Clean a 1/2 cup of split urad beans, remove stones and other
foreign material, and mix it with a 1/2 cup of cleaned white rice. Rinse the mixture until clean water comes
out. Add 1-1/2 cups of clean water and 1/4 teaspoon of rocksalt (not regular table salt). Heat the mixture
and let it boil for 1 minute. Then reduce the heat, stir, and cover tightly. Let it cook until the beans and rice
become soft. Urad beans take a little longer than other beans to soften. Serve with butter.
Mars and Number 9
1. For a more detailed explanation of japa, see Tools for Tantra by Harish Johari (Destiny Books,
Rochester, VT, 1986), p. 30.
2. The numerical yantras are mystical diagrams of planetary energy. They are famous as magic
squares. For further information, see The Healing Power of Gemstones by Harish Johari (Destiny Books,
Rochester, VT, 1988).
Projecting Into the Future
1. The numbers assigned to the days of the week are the numbers of the ruling planets of that day:
Sunday = 1 (Sun)
Monday = 2 (Moon)
Tuesday = 9 (Mars)
Wednesday = 5 (Mercury)
Thursday = 3 (Jupiter)
Friday = 6 (Venus)
Saturday = 8 (Saturn).
Sources of Supply
1) Gem powders can be obtained from:
Bazaar of India Imports
1810 University Avenue
Berkeley, CA 94703
(800) 261-7662
2) Gem talismans, gem powders, and nine-gem pendulums can be ordered from:
Mr. Dinesh Johari
368, Govindpuri. Pincode: 249403.
Haridwar, U.P.
India
Note: Because these are not readily available, one must wait after placing the order. When ordering, please
give your complete address; the day of the week, date, time, and place of birth. For information, please
write with prepaid postage.
3) Nine-gem pendulums can also be ordered in the United States from:
Harmat Enterprises Ltd.
50 West 34th Street
Suite 23 C10
New York, NY 10001
About the Author
Harish Johari (1934-1999) was a distinguished North Indian author, Tantric
scholar, poet, musician, composer, artist, and gemologist who held degrees in
philosophy and literature and made it his life’s work to introduce the culture of
his homeland to the West.
About Inner Traditions • Bear & Company
Founded in 1975, Inner Traditions is a leading publisher of books on indigenous
cultures, perennial philosophy, visionary art, spiritual traditions of the East and
West, sexuality, holistic health and healing, self-development, as well as
recordings of ethnic music and accompaniments for meditation.
In July 2000, Bear & Company joined with Inner Traditions and moved from
Santa Fe, New Mexico, where it was founded in 1980, to Rochester, Vermont.
Together Inner Traditions • Bear & Company have eleven imprints: Inner
Traditions, Bear & Company, Healing Arts Press, Destiny Books, Park Street
Press, Bindu Books, Bear Cub Books, Destiny Recordings, Destiny Audio
Editions, Inner Traditions en Español, and Inner Traditions India.
For more information or to browse through our more than one thousand titles
in print and ebook formats, visit www.InnerTraditions.com.
Become a part of the Inner Traditions community to receive special offers and
members-only discounts.
BOOKS OF RELATED INTEREST
THE HEALING POWER OF GEMSTONES
In Tantra, Ayurveda, and Astrology
by Harish Johari
THE YOGA OF SNAKES AND ARROWS
The Leela of Serf-Knowledge
by Harish Johari
CHAKRAS
Energy Centers of Transformation
by Harish Johari
TOOLS FOR TANTRA
by Harish Johari
BREATH, MIND, AND CONSCIOUSNESS
by Harish Johari
DESTINY IN THE PALM OF YOUR HAND
Creating Your Future through Vedic Palmistry
by Ghanshyam Singh Birla
LOVE IN THE PALM OF YOUR HAND
How to Use Palmistry for Successful Relationships
by Ghanshyam Singh Birla
THE NUMEROLOGY OF THE I CHING
A Sourcebook of Symbols, Structures, and Traditional Wisdom
by Taoist Master Alfred Huang
Inner Traditions • Bear & Company
P.O. Box 388
Rochester, VT 05767
1-800-246-8648
www.InnerTraditions.com
Or contact your local bookseller
Destiny Books
One Park Street
Rochester, Vermont 05767
www.InnerTraditions.com
Destiny Books is a division of Inner Traditions International
Copyright © 1990 by Harish Johari
All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced or utilized in any form or by any means,
electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording, or by any information storage and retrieval
system, without permission in writing from the publisher.
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
Johari, Harish, 1934-
Numerology—with Tantra, Ayurveda, and astrology/Harish Johari.
p. cm.
ebook ISBN 978-1-62055-076-2
print ISBN 0-89281-258-3
1. Symbolism of numbers. 2. Tantrism—Miscellanea. 3. Medicine, Ayurvedic—Miscellanea. 4.
Astrology, Hindu. I. Title.
BF1623.P9J55 1990
133.3′35—dc20 89-17218
CIP

The 16 Karmic Debt is about the fall of the ego and all it has built for itself. 

 It is a watershed, a cleansing. Things the ego has constructed to separate a person from the source of life, are destroyed.

Through the 16, reunion with higher consciousness may be achieved. This can be a painful process because it usually comes after much ego inflation, resulting in a struggle between the ego and higher ideals.

Life will present challenges to your grand plans which you may resent and struggle against. It is a losing battle… and you will likely feel humbled in the face of the collapse that follows. However, humility is the key to later success, as you learn to follow the intimations of a deeper reality.

In the destruction of the old, an inner rebirth takes place with an entirely new awareness. This rebirth affects every area of your life - a far better life for the fall.

Those with the 16 Karmic Debt must be careful of egoism.
Often, those with the 16 use their highly intuitive and refined intellect to look down on others. This can cause acute alienation and loneliness. In addition, it invites retribution, for the egotist is humbled more harshly than any other.

When the 16 is found in one of the core numbers, the process of destruction and rebirth is a continual cycle that serves to bring you into higher consciousness and a deeper connection to elevated ideals.

The 16 Karmic Debt can be a path of progress and great spiritual growth if it is viewed properly. One develops faith in life by broadening a limited outlook, listening (expanding intuition), questioning old ways, and staying open to a new path.

The great pitfall you face is the choice of becoming aloof and critical.
This will result in alienation and even bitterness. You can also easily lift off the ground, becoming impractical and dreamy. If you indulge too much in flight of fancy, you may drift from reality and give up the possibility of earning an adequate living.

The 16 excellent intuition, not unlike the Master number 11, and may even possess psychic ability. Trust your intuition and use it as a guide in life. But always, be practical in your application of your insights.

With a Karmic Debt 16, you can easily lose interest in your projects and must work hard to finish what you start. You must have faith and let opportunities come your way.

You are sensitive and feel deeply, but you don't share your feelings easily, nor do you communicate them well. The realm of the heart troubles you for its shifting, nebulous qualities. You must work hard to understand this area of life.
Those with a 13 Karmic Debt will work very hard to accomplish any task.

Obstacles will stand in your way and must be overcome time and again. You may feel burdened and frustrated by the seeming futility of your efforts, and have a tendency to give up on the goal believing it was impossible to attain to begin with.

Some with the 13 Karmic Debt fall to laziness and negativity. But efforts are not futile, and success is well within reach - one simply must work hard and persevere to reach the goal. Many highly successful people in all walks of life including business, art, and sports, have a 13 Karmic Debt.

The key to succeeding with the 13 is focus.
Very often, people with a 13 Karmic Debt don’t concentrate their energies in a specific direction or on a single task, but scatter their attention over many projects, none of which amount to much.

A temptation with the 13 is to take shortcuts. Easy success doesn't come often, causing regret and the desire to give up. The result is a poor self-image and the belief that one is incapable of amounting to much.

It is essential to maintain order in your life.
Stick to a schedule, keep appointments, and follow through. Keep your environment neat and under control, and never procrastinate. If you sustain a steady and consistent effort, you will realize much reward.

Your co-workers recognize your discipline and come to rely upon you. Ironically, you may feel that you have yet to find the work you truly love or were meant to do.

There may be a feeling that your talents are buried too deep for you to find them. This can lead to try many different vocations without a feeling that you have truly found your place.

You can be stubborn and rigid, refusing to allow new and creative ideas to penetrate your rigid adherence to established methods. This can, and often does, lead to frustration and repression for you. Things seem to take forever, especially when you resist bringing fresh approaches into your very tidy and comfortable ways of doing things.

Your challenge is to make the most of what you are doing right now.
The keys to your success are your willingness to maintain order and discipline in your life, and to make the most of every opportunity that comes your way
The 14 Karmic Debt arises from previous actions where human freedom has been abused.

Those with a 14 Karmic Debt are forced to adapt to ever-changing circumstances and unexpected occurrences.

There is an acute danger of falling victim to drug abuse, alcohol, or overindulgence in sensual pleasures, such as food and sex. Moderation in all affairs is crucial to overcome this Karmic Debt.

Flexibility and adaptability are at the very core of this struggle. You must be ready to adapt to unexpected occurrences, while continuing to maintain focus on your goals and dreams.

An organized personal environment is crucial to maintain clarity and focus. Mental and emotional stability must be attained to avoid being thrown about by the changing fortunes in the external environment.

The key to the 14 Karmic Debt is commitment.
Life will resemble a roller coaster at times, but it will always travel in the right direction if your heart is set on what is true and good. Set yourself a high goal, maintain order wherever possible, avoid excessive indulgence, and maintain faith. Above all, do not give up on your dreams and goals.

Those with the 14 Karmic Debt can experience success, significant spiritual development, and life to the fullest by maintaining a high dream and focus. Major changes in life should be studied well before you make them. The 14 can be over-confident and headstrong, but you also tend to be lucky and a natural gambler.

Underlying their love of change is much insecurity.
Beneath an exterior of calm or coolness lies much emotional turbulence, which reflects itself in their life as rapid change and mercurial mood swings. The challenge is to ground in a particular profession or lifestyle that will provide limits and form for their considerable creativity.

A Karmic Debt 14 is exceedingly versatile and talented. There are few things they cannot do. They are also industrious once they have made a commitment to a specific task.

The key to their success is balance; they must avoid making major changes just to escape the routine, or as a means of avoiding responsibility for difficult situations. By grounding in a particular field and committing their considerable talents to work, they can become very successful.
The 19 Karmic Debt can become a self-imposed prison if you don’t recognize the need for interdependence and the mutual need for love.

A person with the 19 Karmic Debt will learn independence and the proper use of power. You will be placed in situations where you are forced to stand up for yourself, and often be left standing alone.

One of the central lessons for people with the 19 Karmic Debt revolves around stubbornly resisting help from others. Much of your independence is self-imposed - you simply want to do it your own way.

Although you seek to stand on your own feet, you are inextricably connected to others and in need of the support and understanding that all people need - this is the most important lesson for the 19 Karmic Debt.

Those with the 19 Karmic Debt learn the hard way that "no one is an island," and that we are, indeed, "all bits of the main!"

Strong and individualistic, self-reliant, and confident; this Karmic Debt number can bring loneliness and alienation due to a lack of support from others.

You tend to struggle to achieve the degree of self- sufficiency you desire and may endure considerable frustration in your struggle for independence. The reason: your desire for independence is so strong is that it eclipses many other balancing perspectives.

Your challenge is to achieve a wider degree of perspective on yourself and others.
Exchange ideas with others, lest you become insulated and isolated by your own perspective. This can become a kind of prison for you.

You can be highly stubborn, which emanates from fear. Try to see that all of life is but an ecosystem, a life cycle delicately balanced in such a way that everyone is supporting.

You will be placed in situations where you are forced to stand up for yourself (and often be left standing alone).
Difficulties are faced and overcome through personal struggle. You are highly ambitious and have a strong drive for success and power.

Although self-confident, you like to be encouraged. You are a hard worker and an important fixture in any enterprise in which you are involved. People are attracted to your deep commitment to your work, and the steadiness with which you do it. You are a pioneer at heart; you are willing to take risks to get what you desire. As such, you are willing to change your environment often, and even enjoy doing so.

You are demonstrative in your affections and willing to sacrifice for others. You are highly idealistic, but if your ideals fail, you can become bitter and negative. You are very sensitive, with many emotional ups and downs. You tend to find yourself in dramatic situations, yet you like to control your emotions in public and come off as if everything is under control.

With your determination and inventive and creative mind you have potential for achievement and financial reward!

About Karmic Debt numbers
Karmic Debt numbers in numerology are thought to represent the consequences of unresolved actions, attitudes, or behaviors from past lives. These numbers are seen as specific vibrational energies that reflect the lessons an individual must work through in this lifetime to resolve karmic imbalances. The concept is based on the belief in reincarnation—where a person’s actions in previous lives create a ripple effect that influences their current circumstances and experiences.

Rather than being a punishment, karmic debt is seen as an opportunity for personal and spiritual growth. The challenges linked with karmic debt numbers are thought to be soul lessons that help an individual evolve and fulfill their greater purpose. These lessons may be experienced as difficulties, but they are ultimately there to help the person move past negative or stagnant energy, enabling them to move forward in their spiritual journey.

Key Characteristics of Karmic Debt Numbers
Unresolved Issues: Karmic debt numbers indicate that a person has unfinished business from past lives. This could involve neglecting responsibilities, engaging in harmful behaviors, or failing to learn important life lessons. These unresolved issues manifest in the present life as challenges or repeating patterns.

Lessons to be Learned: Each karmic debt number corresponds to specific lessons or qualities that need to be developed. These lessons can often feel difficult, and individuals may struggle with them until they fully embrace the underlying message and work toward overcoming them.

The Opportunity for Growth: While karmic debt numbers bring challenges, they also provide a unique opportunity to transform negative patterns. By working through these lessons, individuals can experience significant growth and evolution, overcoming old limitations and stepping into their full potential.

Spiritual Evolution: In numerology, the idea behind karmic debt is that life is not just about material success or external achievements, but about the evolution of the soul. These numbers often come up when the soul needs to undergo certain transformations to break free from karmic cycles that have held it back.

Not Punishment but a Chance for Resolution: It’s important to remember that karmic debt is not viewed as a punishment. Instead, it represents a chance to resolve past mistakes, rectify imbalances, and move forward with greater wisdom and understanding. Overcoming karmic debt allows the soul to clear negative karma and progress spiritually.

Repetitive Life Patterns: People with karmic debt numbers often find themselves in situations where the same kinds of challenges or obstacles repeat throughout their lives. These repetitions are believed to be a sign that the person has not yet fully addressed or learned the lesson associated with their karmic debt number.

General Traits of People with Karmic Debt Numbers
Challenges: Individuals with karmic debt numbers often face repeated challenges, difficulties in relationships, career struggles, or personal crises. These challenges are often tied to their past actions or inactions in previous lives, and overcoming them is part of their soul’s evolution.

Potential for Transformation: If the person works consciously to overcome the issues associated with their karmic debt, they have the potential for profound personal transformation. The difficulties can lead to greater resilience, wisdom, and self-awareness.

Self-Reflection and Responsibility: Karmic debt numbers urge individuals to take responsibility for their actions and reflect deeply on their behavior, attitudes, and choices. By learning to be more responsible and self-aware, they can break free from negative patterns.

Spiritual Awareness: People with karmic debt numbers are often drawn to spirituality or self-development practices. Whether through meditation, therapy, or personal growth work, these individuals may find themselves seeking ways to heal and overcome their past.

Releasing Negative Patterns: One of the most important aspects of working with karmic debt numbers is letting go of old, limiting behaviors. This might involve releasing attachment to ego, destructive habits, or negative thought patterns that have carried over from past lives.

Working with Karmic Debt Numbers
To work with karmic debt numbers, a person needs to engage in self-awareness and introspection. Here are a few ways individuals can approach karmic debt:

Embrace the Lessons: Understand that the challenges related to karmic debt are opportunities for growth. Embrace the lesson rather than resist it.

Mindful Decision-Making: Focus on making conscious, thoughtful decisions in life. Avoid repeating mistakes from the past and take responsibility for one’s actions.

Healing and Forgiveness: Heal any wounds from past relationships, whether they are familial, romantic, or platonic. Letting go of grudges and forgiving yourself and others is often part of resolving karmic debt.

Spiritual Practices: Engage in practices that help you clear negative energy and raise your vibrational frequency, such as meditation, energy healing, or prayer.

Seek Guidance: Some people with karmic debt numbers may find it helpful to work with a numerologist, spiritual counselor, or therapist to better understand and work through their challenges.

Conclusion
Karmic debt numbers in numerology are an essential part of understanding an individual’s spiritual path and growth. They signify unfinished business from past lives that manifests as life challenges in the present. By working through these debts—whether through hard work, self-awareness, or spiritual practice—a person can resolve past imbalances and achieve greater peace, wisdom, and spiritual maturity. Rather than being a burden, karmic debt is an invitation to learn, evolve, and transcend old patterns.

Aside from Karmic Debt numbers, numerology also recognizes Karmic Lessons, which are derived from your full name at birth.