MATTHEW OLIVER GOODWIN
NUMEROLOGY
THE COMPLETE GUIDE
3
Volume I:
The fersonely Reading
r
/
/
'- "('.,.
NUMEROLOGY
The Complete Guide
VOLUME ONE
From the library of:
RON DlxoJiJ
r !
,·r· ).
_NUMEROLOGY
The Complete Guide
VOLUME ONE
THE PERSONALITY
READING
Matthew Oliver Goodwin
NEWCASTLE PUBLISHING COMPANY, INC. • NORTH HOLLYWOOD, CALIFORNIA· 1981

- ,.('.).
For additional information on readings and classes, write:
Matthew Goodwin
P.O. Box 2204
Culver City, CA 90231
Copyright © 1981
by Matthew Oliver Goodwin
All rights reserved
Vol 1: ISBN 0-87877-053-4
Vol 2: ISBN 0-87877-054-2
2 Vol Set: ISBN 0-87877-999-X
A NEWCASTLE BOOK
First printing October-1981
678910
Printed in the United States of America
Design: Riley K. Smith
Typography: Freedmen's Organization
Printed by Delta Lithograph· Van Nuys, CA
\
TO ARLENE
.,
"
t
~-.-. ~ .. '
,~
· !
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
I would like to acknowledge the many people who helped.
Thanksto the special friend (who prefers to remain anonymous)
who first introduced me to numerology,
to Naomi Weisman, who shared her insights,
to Dana Holliday, who contributed her unique awarenesses,
to Kelley Jeane Younger, for helping to make this project
a reality and for consulting on the book,
to Anne Brenden Monkarsh, for her gracious special help,
to Pam Cisneros, who typed so much of the mountain of
manuscript,
to Judy Yerman, whose contribution when needed was so
important,
to Mary Leipziger, who contributed the back-cover photograph (aJ).d the pa_stries to help my occasionally lagging
spitity~ ,>
Thanks to those whose encouragement for my special project
was so meaningful:
Ida Goodwin, Jean Brill, Miriam Miller, Harvey Yerman,
Elliot Brill, Susan Brill, Bill Brill, Helen Brill, Antonino
Bruno, Lenore Goldman, Bernie Weisman, Audrey Simmons, Neil Perlmutter, Boris Marks, Julian Hanberg,
Gerta Farber.
And, of course, thanks to Josh Goodwin for his support, to
Lisa Goodwin for her encouragement from around the world,
to Adam Chess for his concern-and especially to Arlene
Goodwin who was always there to listen, discuss and lend
loving sustenance.
Los Angeles, 1981
--.~.
,.r'
CONTENTS
CONTENTS
VOLUME 1
• ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
PART I: INTRODUCTION
• CHAPTER 1:
A BEGINNING
Definitic)h-ofnllmerology 3
How is the numerology information derived? 3
Why does numerology work? 3
A brief history 4
The different parts of this book 4
• CHAPTER 2:
THE BASICS
The basic numbers: the nine single digits and the
two master numbers 7
The simple symbolism of the basic numbers 7
The relation of the numbers to each other 12
Special groups of basic numbers 13
The positive and negative energy of each number
group 13
A discussion of CHART 1: THE NUMBERS-BASICS 14
The basic data: the birthdate and the
birthname 15·
Different alphabets 15
Making adjustments for special names 15
ix
vii
3
~ ..
7
x CONTENTS
The basic operation: reducing numbers by
addition 16
The number value of letters 18
PART II: CHARACTER DELINEATION-THE CORE
The core: the major determinant in the
delineation 21
• CHAPTER 3:
THE FIRST ELEMENT OF THE
CORE: THE LIFE PATH ________ _
Definition: the major lesson to be learned in this
life 23
The calculation 24
Examples of the calculation 25
A discussion of CHART 2: THE LIFE PATH 26
An outline of the sample reading of the Life
Path 28
The Life Paths of some famous people 29
• CHAPTER 4:
THE SECOND ELEMENT OF THE
23
CORE: THE EXPRESSION 31
Definition: a person's potential natural abilities 31
The calculation 32
Examples of the calculation 33
A discussion of CHART 3: THE EXPRESSION 33
An outline of a sample reading of the
Expression 34
.• CHAPTER 5:
THE THIRD ELEMENT OF THE
CORE: THE SOUL URGE 37
Definition: a person's inner motivation 37
The calculation 38
Examples of the calculation 38
A discussion of CHART 4: THE SOUL URGE 39
An outline of a sample reading of the Soul
Urge 40
• CHAPTER 6:
THE FOURTH ELEMENT OF THE
CORE:THEBIRTHDAY ________ _ 41
CONTENTS
Definition: a sub-lesson to be learned in this
life 41
The relation of the Birthday to the Life Path 41
The calculation 41
A discussion of CHART 5: THE BIRTHDAY 41
Relative importance of the Birthday 43
An outline of a sample reading of the Birthday 43
• CHAPTER 7:
SYNTHESIS OF THE CORE
ELEMENTS
The four simple principles involved in synthesizing
the core 45
The relative power of the core elements 45
How the core elements modify each other 47
Finding the harmony or discord among the
core elements 47
A discussion of CHART 6: THE ASPECTS 49
Finding the effectiveness of the combined
elements 50
The Table of Effectiveness 51
The 22 steps in core synthesis 56
A complete step-by-step core delineation of a
fictitious subject, Harlan William Allen 57
A summary of the core synthesis 71
The potential energies found in a character
delineation 72
A look at Abrabam Lincoln's numerology
delineation 73,
A look at Charles Darwin's numerology
delineation 73 "
The delineation: reading for the entire life or for
any specific time period in the life 74
The effect of the free will and environment 75
The ambiguity in delineations 75
Expressing the potentials positively 76
• CHAPTER 8:
CORE SYNTHESIS WITH MASTER
NUMBERELEMENTS ________________ __
Master numbers: the heightened level of awareness
and the reduced level 77
The Birthday with a master number 78
The Life Path, Expression or Soul Urge with a
master number 78
xi
"t~r~~~'s~:~!"
;~,:1"
45 ~q1);,'I "
;~ ~"
77
-~~-'
xii
""- ,.(" '").
L
CONTENTS
A partial step-by-step core delineation with a
master number element: a delineation for
Grandma Moses 79
A special case: The Birthday and one additional
element with master numbers 85
Another special case: Two elements other than the
Birthday with master numbers 86
• CHAPTER 9:
CORE SYNTHESIS WITH REPEATED
NUMBERELEMENTS ________________ __
The problem when the core has two elements with
the same number 88
Famous people with doubled core elements 90
The effect of the age with doubled core
elements 92
A partial step-by-step core delineation with doubled
elements: Hilde Agatha Parsons, a fictitious
subject 93
A special case: The Birthday and the Life Path of
the same number 101
A special case: The Birthday and the Expression
of the same number 101
A special case: The Birthday and the Soul Urge
of the same number 102
Another special case: master numbers as doubled
core elements 102
Another special case: tripled core elements 103
And, finally, quadrupled core elements 103
87
PART III: CHARACTER DELINEATION-THE MODIFIERS
The relation of the modifiers to the core 107
• CHAPTER 10:
USING THE MODIFIERS 109
Definition: a modifier is any element used in a
character delineation which is not one of the core
elements 109
Definition: modifer number and modifier
energy 109
How to group the energies by modifier
number 110
The directing modifiers 112
CONTENTS xili
The calculation sheet 113
The organization sheet 115
Hal Allen, our fictitious subject, from Chapter 7,
and his organization sheet 116
Full-size blank organization sheet for copying 119
• CHAPTER 11:
SIGNIFICANT DIFFICULTIES:
THE KARMIC DEBTS 121
Definition: a significant difficulty encountered in
this life as payment for the misapplication of
energies in a past life 121
The calculation 121
A discussion of CHART 7: THE KARMIC DEBT 121
Commentary 122
A portion of a delineation expressing the Karmic
Debt 123
The significance of the number of
Karmic Debts 125
Hal Allen's organization sheet 126
Hal Allen's delineation 126
• CHAPTER 12:
STRONG POSITIVE AND NEGATIVE
CHARACTERISTICS:
THE INTENSITY TABLE
THE KARMIC LESSONS,
THE INTENSiTY POINTS,
THE PRIME INTENSIFIER _______ 129
Definitions and calculations 129
Definition: The Intensity Table-a table derived
from the letters in the name indicating
characteristics which are of above average or
below average intensity 129
Definition: A Karmic Lesson-a modifier indicating
potential weaknesses, difficulties or obstacles
because the modifier energy hasn't been
experienced in past lives 130
Definition: an Intensity Point-a modifier I
indicating characteristics of above average or
below average intensity ·130
Defintion: the Prime Intensifier-the Intensity
Point appearing in the largest quantity,
indicating strong and obvious characteristics 130
A discussion of CHART 8: THE INTENSITY TABLE 131
Commentary: The Intensity Points 132
,J"
to- '. r
riv
,,(' .).
CONTENTS
Commentary: The Prime Intensifier 133
Commentary: The Karmic Lessons 133
Commentary: The Modified Karmic Lessons 134
Entering the modifiers derived from the Intensity
Table on the organization sheet 134
Expressing the Intensity Table modifiers in a
delineation 136
A speCial case: no Karmic Lessons 136
A special case: four or more Karmic Lessons 136
A special case: a 1, 5 or 9 Karmic Lesson 136
The rarity of the 7 in the Intensity Table 137
Hal Allen's calculation 138
Hal Allen's organization sheet and delineation 139
• CHAPTER 13:
BEGINNING OBSTACLES:
THE SUB-ELEMENTS OF THE CORE 143
Definition 143
Example 143
Sub-element and core element with the same
number 144
Two sub-elements with the same number 145
Hal Allen's organization sheet and delineation 146
• CHAPTER 14:
ANOTHER BEGINNING OBSTACLE:
THE CHALLENGE 149
Definition: an obstacle encountered in the early
years of life, at least, due to the emphasis placed
on the negative extreme of the potential 149
The calculation 149
A discussion of CHART 9: THE CHALLENGE/THE
GROWTH NUMBER 150
Commentary 150
Special cases 151
The expression of the Challenge in the
delineation 151
Hal Allen's organization sheet and delineation 152
• CHAPTER 15:
A GUIDE TO GROWTH:
THE GROWTH NUMBER 153
Definition: the energy which will illuminate the
essence of the experiences and help expand a
person's development 153
Commentary 153
CONTENTS
The calculation 154
The Growth Number in CHART 9: THE CHALLENGE/
THE GROWTH NUMBER 154
Examples 154
The relative importance of the Growth Number
and the Life Path 155
A special case: The Growth Number is a master
number 155
Hal Allen's organization sheet and delineation 155
• CHAPTER 16:
A LATER LESSON TO BE LEARNED:
THE MATURITY NUMBER 157
Definition: a sub-lesson introduced at
maturity 157
The calculation 157
A discussion of CHART 10: THE MATURITY
NUMBER 157
The age for applying the Maturity Number 160
A special case: a Karmic Debt behind the Maturity
number 160
A special case: the Maturity Number is a master
number 160
A special case: repeated core elements matching the
Maturity Number 161
The expression of the Maturity Number in the
delineation 161
Hal Allen's"otganization sheet and delineation 162
• CHAPTER 17:
AN INNER DREAM:
THE SECRET SELF __________ 165
Definition: a dream of desires cherished deep in
the recesses of the mind 165
The calculation 165
Commentary 166
The expression of the Secret Self in the
delineation 166
Hal Allen's organization sheet and delineation 167
• CHAPTER 18:
NUANCES: GROUPS,
NUMBERS BEHIND THE CORE ELEMENTS _ 169
Groups 169 .
Numbers behind the core elements 170
Hal Allen's organization sheet and delineation 171
fxv ~.CI'~:~~~~',~~,~--",;:.~~.~!~ .,
.,
~~ ~~~
')
.,
- - . - - - ~_ - - -.-I
xvi
""-" ,.(" '").
CONTENTS
• CHAPTER 19:
THE BASIC VIEWPOINT:
THE TEMPERAMENT 173
Definition: the disposition determined by the
relative proportion of physical, mental, emotional
and intuitive components 173
The component calculation 174
The component strength calculation 175
The component descriptions 175
Using the component descriptions 178
The Temperament as a directing modifier 178
On the organization sheet 180
Expressing the Temperament in a delineation 180
Temperament delineation example 181
Hal Allen's organization sheet and delineation 183
• CHAPTER 20:
THE APPROACH TO EXPERIENCE:
THE FIRST LETTER, THE FIRST VOWEL 185
Definition: The First Letter and First Vowel
describe the innate approach to experience 185
A discussion of CHART 11: THE FIRST LETTER . 186
A discussion of CHART 12: THE FIRST VOWEL 187
Commentary 187
Examples 188
Special cases 189
ExpI:ession of the First Letter and First Vowel in a
delineation 191
Hal Allen's organization sheet and delineation 192
• CHAPTER 21:
SYNTHESIS OF THE CORE
AND MODIFIERS 193
Hal Allen's complete calculation sheet 193
Hal Allen's complete organization sheet 193
Hal Allen's delineation outline 195
A complete step-by-step delineation of our fictitious
subject, Hal Allen, using the core elements and
modifiers 197
A discussion of the use of the modifiers in Hal
Allen's delineation 217
A summary of Hal Allen's core synthesis (of
Chapter 7) compared to a summary of the
synthesis of his core and modifiers from this
chapter 217
Commentary 218
CONTENTS xvII
THE REFERENCE CHARTS
CHART 1: THE NUMBERS-THE BASICS _ 222
See Chapter 2
CHART 2: THE LIFE PATH _______ 236
See Chapter 3
CHART 3: THE EXPRESSION ______ 250
See Chapter 4
CHART 4: THE SOUL URGE ______ 264
See Chapter 5
CHART 5: THE BIRTHDAY _______ 278
See Chapter 6
CHART 6: THE ASPECTS _______ 292
See Chapter 7
CHART 7: THE KARMIC DEBT _____ 306
See Chapter 11
CHART 8: THE INTENSITY TABLE ____ 312
See Chapter 12 ~. CHART 9: THE CHALLENGE/
THE GROWTH NUMBER 326
See Chapters 14 and 15
CHART 10: THE MATURITY NUMBER 340
See Chapter 16
CHART 11:' 'THE FIRST LETTER 354 ,~-
See Chapter 20 f
~
CHART 12: THE FIRST VOWEL 368 ':
See Chapter 20 a ~' ~
)
~. ,
PART I:
INTRODUCTION
.• r· '":t-
CHAPTEH 1: A BEGINNING
CHAPTER 1
A BEGINNING
Numerology is the study of the occult significance of
numbers. It's probably the simplest of the occult fields to learn
and master. Using numerology, you can discover a person's
strengths and weaknesses, deep inner needs, emotional reactions, ways of dealing with others, talents. You can help
yourself by becoming aware of your own character and learning to understand and deal with others-family, friends,
lovers, employers, employees. You can find out what kind of
potential energy and what type of stress are currently existing
in your life and in the lives of those about you. You can determine the best times ~o marry, change jobs, move, speculate,
take a trip. ..(-,.
How is all this information derived? In all the occult fields,
observers have found correlations between certain clearly
observable physical phenomena and the inner workings of people. In other words, the universe seems to have provided many
keys which, when understood, provide superb tools for the
understanding of human nature. In astrology, the key relates
the planets' positions at a person's birth with the person's traits;
in palm reading, the key relates the lines and bumps of the
hand with a person's characteristics; and, in numerology, the
key relates a person's name and birthdate with that person's
nature. Significantly, all the readings are consistent with each
other-the different readings often have similar information or
cover different, but related, aspects of a person's traits.
Why does numerology work? There are many explanations
in the literature-discussions of psychic energy, the God force,
the vibratory effect of numbers. These explanations have not
clarified anything for me. Frankly, I don't know why numerology works. I don't know whether the numbers are merely a
3
4
- .. (- ,.
PART I: INTRODUCTION
descriptive code or representative of a force determining people's behavior. Numerology, like the other occult fields, does
not, at this time, allow for scientific explanation. I can only attest to the fact, confirmed by other numerologists and their
clients, of the consistent congruence between a person's
numbers and that person's characteristics and life experiences.
Some numerologists feel that the field can be traced back
over 10,000 years. The centuries-old Hebrew Kabbala, for instance, deals with the subject. Pythagoras in Greece some 2600
years ago is even credited with giving this field new life, along
with his other mathematical studies. It is delightful to be carrying on a tradition with such a long history. Although some people are comforted in the knowledge that numerology has so
many thousands of years of study behind it, the link between
modern numerology and the ancients is a somewhat tenuous
connection.
The modern phase of numerology was started by L. Dow
Balliett, an American woman in Atlantic City, N. J., who published several books on the subject at the turn of .the century.
Later, Dr. Julia Seton helped publicize the field. Since then,
the work of these two women has been extended by Florence
Campbell, Juno Jordan and others, so that there now exists a
small literature on the subject. Unfortunately, much of the literature is abstruse, archaic or fragmented.
This book is a presentation of the entire field of numerology
in a manner which will allow a beginner to easily assimilate the
material and an advanced student to quickly master the craft.
The individual elements making up a reading are fully defined
and analyzed and many examples are included showing how
the elements are combined into a delineation. Throughout, the
emphasis is on clarity and completeness.
Each section of the book forms a complete unit of the subject. When you've finished Part II, for instance, you'll be capable of giving simple character readings which will be correct as
far as they go. Completion of Part III will add considerable
depth to the readings and Part IV will develop your advanced
delineation skills. Part V covers progressed delineations-determining the potential energies and events for any time in a
person's entire life.
"Much of the reference material required by a numerologist is
presented in a unique format at the end of each volume: charts
CHAPTER 1: A BEGINNING
specially designed for easy cross-reference. The charts are
available for reference in giving readings after the subject has
been mastered.
I hope you'll find numerology as exciting and satisfying as I
have. I expect that if you study the field at all, you'll be fascinated by your new understanding of yourself and others. In
addition, you'll probably be surprised to find your awareness of
the universe and its structure significantly broadened .
. '- .. ('.).
5
.0(-
CIIAPTEIl 2: TilE BASICS
CHAPTER 2
THE BASICS
THE BASIC NUMBERS
The study of numerology is the study of the symbolism ot
numbers. Each number represents one large area of human
awareness and experience; all the numbers together cover all
possible awarenesses, experiences, talents and characteristics.
Only the single digits-I, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9-and the
Master Numbers 11 and 22 are used. The Master Nuinbers, the
only numbers not reduced to a single digit, represent a special
higher level of potential than the other numbers.
As a beginning step, think of each number as a lesson to be
learned. We'll list each number along with its "keywords," the
simplest expression o{ the number's lesson, and then describe
the lesson mOhfcorripletely in an accompanying paragraph or
two. Think of the lesson as the heart of each number, the essence to which all the experiences and characteristics relate.
In this introductory chapter, each number is described briefly. As your study advances, additional aspects of each number
will be discussed. Your own observation and experience will
broaden your understanding. Later on, in the advanced Chapter 22 in Volume 2, we'll summarize the myriad characteristics
of all the numbers.
1
INDIVIDUATION
INDEPENDENCE
ATTAINMENT
A person must distinguish himself from other people and
acknowledge his own INDIVIDUATION. The individual has
to develop the capability of standing on his own and going from
dependence to INDEPENDENCE. Once independent, the person becomes aware of his potential for A TT AINMENT as an
The lessons
of the
numbers
7
,.
i:
i
8
. '- .. (, ,,.
PART l: INTRODUCTION
individual-for creating and pioneering when working alone,
for leading and managing when working with others.
2
RELATION
COOPERATION
Independence is important but has its limitations. There are
other people all about, and another lesson involves being a
meaningful part of a group-a small group like family or
friends, a larger group like a business or community. The person must learn adaptability, service, consideration for others,
i.e., the meaning of a RELATION with others, the idea of
COOPERATION.
3
EXPRESSION
JOY OF LIVING
A person must discover, both as an individual and as a group
member, his capability of EXPRESSION: (1) artistic expression-writing, painting, sculpting, singing or any of the many
other means of expressing inner thoughts and emotions, and
(2) expression of feelings toward others-friendship, affection,
love. The JOY OF LIVING can be expressed with optimism
and enthusiasm. There can be a purity, even a naivete here.
(This is, perhaps, the most enjoyable lesson of all the numbers.)
4
LIMITATION
ORDER
SERVICE
Life doesn't always present opportunities for singing and
laughing. Life doesn't always appear expansive or yours for the
taking. Often, it feels just the opposite. The individual must
learn the difficult law of LIMITATION. Everyone has limitations-limitations presented by the environment, by the
physical body, by the restrictions of the individual's viewpoints. Rather than struggle against these limits, it is necessary
to learn to live with them, to accept them and to make a
meaningful existence, not in spite of the limitations, but because of the limitations. It is a difficult lesson. The individual
embarking on this course must learn system and organization,
ORDER on. a practical level. He must be prepared to be of
SERVICE to others.
~:.
"
CHAPTER 2: TIlE BASICS
5
CONSTRUCTIVE FREEDOM
There is a time for expansion, for dealing with change, unexpected happenings, adventure. This lesson usually gives a person an abundance of talents in every direction, the capability
of accomplishing almost anything for which an opportunity is
presented-and many opportunities are presented. With the
freedom that this abundance of talent and opportunity brings,
life can be exciting. But the lesson is more difficult: the individual must learn the CONSTRUCTIVE use of FREEDOM. The
individual must not waste his many talents or misuse his ongoing opportunities; he must not get lost in solely physical
desires-food, sex, alcohol, drugs. He must not scatter his
potential and end up with frustration. He must make a meaningful existence by using freedom productively.
6
BALANCE
RESPONSIBILITY
LOVE
A person must learn to give the beauty of love and harmony,
sympathy and understanding, protection and BALANCE.
Along with the balancing, the lesson of RESPONSIBILITY can
be a meaningful one. The individual may find himself responsible for more than what rightly seems his share. Others will
recognize his,stre.pg,th, 'and he may be expected to help them if
they are in need and cannot help themselves. He will probably
be the one who holds the family together, who harmonizes and
adjusts difficult situations. He may choose to limit himself to
his family, his friends, possibly the close community. The
friendship and LOVE the individual expresses to others will
come back to him from those he helps. He can bask in the glory
of a job well done and the quiet reward of friendship and love
returned.
The individual's capability at harmony and balance may also
be expressed creatively-there is the possibility of artistic
achievement.
7
ANALYSIS
UNDERST ANDING
There's a time for introspection, a time to subject all an individual knows to mental ANALYSIS, so that eventually a person possesses much of knowledge and UNDERSTANDING. . '
J(J
,_ .• r- \}<
PART I: INTRODUCTION
Spiritual awareness is employed, and emphasis on material
matters avoided. Desire for material accumulation will probably lead the individual off the track, for this is a time for
study and meditation, a time to know oneself-in the deepest
way.
There will be much time spent alone-the person must learn to
be alone and not feel isolated. Often, the individual will appear
"different" to others-his way of thinking or doing may be
very much his own and may seem inexplicable to his fellow
man. He must accept that he is on a different wavelength and
find satisfaction in that. In a world where materialism rates so
highly, the road for the counselor, the professor, the pure researcher may be a difficult one.
8
MATERIAL SATISFACTION
The individual must learn to deal with the material things of
life, the practical matters. He will find himself at home in the
business world-with much capability as an efficient ad-·
ministrator or executive. He will learn how to handle
money-how to accumulate it, how to spend it wisely. The individual will work for MATERIAL SATISFACTION. This
may mean emphasis on money to buy the best in houses, cars,
furnishings, trips. (Perhaps, if he can reach the highest level of
-this lesson, he will see that material freedom can mean relying
very little on money or material matters. Few ever gain this
insight.)
The individual will be very conscious of status in relation to
material things and will work to satisfy his need for status to
prove his superiority. He may appear single-minded, rigid or
stubborn to others. Striving for power and high material goals
may make him aware of the limitations of his ability or the
restrictions of his circumstances.
9
SELFLESSNESS
. HUMANITARIANISM
There's a time to learn the satisfaction of giving to his fellow
man. This is a difficult lesson. The satisfaction comes from the
giving. There is little reward-the love and friendship are
sometimes returned, the obligation often not repaid. The person must place all others before himself, must give for the sheer
CHAPTER 2: TilE BASICS
pleasure of giving; because he has learned the ultimate satisfaction of SELFLESSNESS and HUMANITARIANISM. The individual gives (1) by helping others or (2) by giving of himself
in some form of creative expression.
11
ILLUMINATION
The master numbers exist on a higher spiritual plane than the
single digits. The first master number, the 11, must work to
develop intuition, to tune into psychic forces not available to
those with lower numbers. He must stand ready to be a channel
with a message from above. In his life, he must inspire by his
own example, living in the way revealed to him, spreading his
ILLUMINATION for others to absorb and· benefit. This
number is as difficult as it is rewarding.
Often, particularly at an early age, the individual is aware of
his special powers yet unable to synthesize them for his own use
or for the good of his fellow man. He is often a relatively impractical idealist, far more a dreamer than a doer. There is an
undercurrent of nervous tension always present from the high
power sources to which the individual is attuned. He has to
learn to live with his special powers, to set himself aside from
the world of material accumulation in order to better understand the powerful forces which can reveal a higher guidance.
22 ,.(' .).
MASTER BUILDER
The second master humber, the 22, is potentially capable of
combining the idealism of the first master number, the 11, with
the ability to put these ideals into a concrete form. Enormous
power is available to him to produce on a significant scale, for
the benefit of humanity. When this potential can be realized,
the individual becomes a MASTER BUILDER, capable of feats
well beyond all others.
Few with this number can marshal their forces to reach
anywhere near the ultimate potential. The individual is aware
of the forces within him, aware also of the nervous tension that
accompanies these forces. He spends his time grappling with
powers that are difficult to comprehend and use. Often, he is
seen by his fellow men as a person with enormous potential
who has not, ,for some o.nexplained reason, been able to fully
use his capabilities. The highest potential is also the most difficult to reach.
11
~ .')
12 PART I: INTRODUCTION
Odd/even The numbers are related to each other in many different
numbers ways. The odd numbers, for example, have somewhat different
qualities than the even.
,_ .• r-.).
Other
number
relations
ODD NUMBERS
1 INDIVIDUATION
INDEPENDENCE
ATTAINMENT
3 EXPESSION
JOY OF LIVING
5 CONSTRUCTIVE FREEDOM
7 ANALYSIS
UNDERSTANDING
9 SELFLESSNESS
HUMANITARIANISM
11 ILLUMINATION
EVEN NUMBERS
2 RELATION
COOPERATION
4 LIMITATION
ORDER
SERVICE
6 BALANCE
RESPONSIBILITY
LOVE
8 MATERIAL SATISFACTION
22 MASTER BUILDER
The odd numbers can be thought of as dealing with the individual alone-the individuation of the 1 or the selflessness of
the 9; the even numbers, on the other hand, involve the rela-
,tion of the individual to the group-the cooperation of the 2,
the love of the 6.
The odd numbers relate to relatively abstract concepts-the
joy of living of the 3, the illumination of the 11, while the even.
numbers are concerned with more practical matters-the service of the 4, the material satisfaction of the 8.
The odd numbers involve more idealistic endeavors-the
constructive freedom of the 5 or the understanding of the 7; the
even numbers relate to more mundane affairs-the responsibility of the 6 or the order of the 4.
There are other relations besides the odd and even.
Each number can be viewed as the next logical development
following the stage represented by the previous number. The
. independence of the 1, for instance, is followed by the cooperation with others of the 2; the constructive freedom of the 5 is
followed by the balance and responsibility of the 6.
From a different perspective, each number represents the
opposite of the previous number: the limitation of the 4 is fol-
CHAPTEU 2: THE BASICS
lowed by the constructive freedom of the 5, the material satisfaction of the 8 is followed by the selflessness of the 9.
Although it's not obvious from the brief descriptions, some
numbers seem to group naturally with other numbers because
of the similarity of the characteristics expressed.
For instance, 2, 6 and 9 all deal with different aspects of how
people get along with each other. The number 2 represents the
less personal relation of people in a bu·siness or some other
group situation associating and cooperating with each other.
The number 6 represents the relation of people in a family or
other small community group-6 deals with friendship, affection and love. The number 9 represents the giving quality of a
humanitarian or philanthropist-a person who gives feelings,
time or money to others with little concern with return.
Another example of a group is 1, 4 and 8, all representing
different aspects of self-centeredness. The number 1 involves
the potential to become independent, to break with any
prevalent bonds of dependency. A person working on independence is likely to be most concerned with his own needs
to the partial or complete exclusion of others' needs. The
number 4 may concern a person with his own real or imagined
limitations. A person may strive to break through the feelings of
limitation or may, although rarely, attempt to learn to liv~
with the strong restrictions imposed. In either case, the concern
with limitation is likely to make a person extremely aware of his
own needs and .. hi~. ~truggle to fulfill the needs despite the restrictions, leaving little room to be concerned with others'
needs. The 8 may well feel more power than the 4, but usually,
because of this power, the 8 will work hard to take care of his
material needs with the traits and power he possesses. An 8's
material needs tend to be a large and significant area of his life,
so that the needs of others are likely to go wanting.
The group of numbers 2, 6 and 9 stand for many traits
.Jesides the relation of people to each other and 1, 4 and 8
involve many characteristics besides self-centeredness. But,
awareness of the different number groupings gives you a potent tool for a delineation. If you find a person with strong 2's,
6's or 9's, the likelihood is strong that this is a person with a
friendly, loving, giving approach. Or, if you find a person with
strong 1's, 4's or 8's, this is likely to be a relatively self-centered
person.
Most people express positive energy most of the time. That's
why all the keywords define potential achievements: the
achievement of independence with 1, the achievement of
Number
groups
Positive/
negative
energy
13 ): ~ :~ ...
14
. ,_ ,,(' ,-)0.
Chart 1:
The
NumbersBasics
PAR T 1: 1NTRODUCTlON
cooperation with 2, all the way to the achievement of a master
builder with 22. But, although there's mostly positive potential
being used, there's also, unfortunately, negative energy
available, too. Since the numbers represent all possible traits
and characteristics, they symbolize negative as well as positive
potentials.
Each number can be thought of as part of a single continuum
extending from 1 to 22, and each keyword (and each
awareness, experience, talent or characteristic) can be viewed,
not as an isolated phenomenon, but as one step of an infinite
number of steps along its own continuum. The keyword
represents the positive potential of the number, but the continuum includes the entire range from the negative potential to
the positive.
When we use the 1 keyword INDEPENDENCE, we really
mean the continuum on which independence represents the
ultimate positive potential. The negative end of the continuum would be lack of independence, i. e., dependence. In
between the two extremes would be passivity, resignation,
subservience.
Similarly, the 6 keyword LOVE is one end of a continuum,
with the other end being inability to relate. From inability to
relate, other steps along the continuum would be association,
friendship, affection and eventually love.
Each number, then, must be thought of as representative of
the total continuum. The keyword is handy for memorization,
but it only states one end, the positive end, of the continuum.
'At the beginning of your study, it will be useful to fall back on
the keyword and the brief description, but your awareness of
the symbolism will rapidly expand as you begin to relate the
keyword to the continuum it represents.
Turn to CHART 1: THE NUMBERS-BASICS, on page 222. The
paragraphs describing the numbers are repeated here in a different format, a format designed to make it easier to see the relations between the numbers. If you thumb through the other
charts grouped at the end of each volume, you'll see that they
follow a format similar to Chart 1. There's a page for each
number in each chart,with the number and its keywords at
the top of the page. The first page of each chart is headed with
the element which the specific chart explores, and, on the second page, the make-up of this particular chart is described and
explained. Because of this repeating format, it's easy, first, to
compare different numbers for the same element in one chart,
and second, to compare the descriptions ofa particular number
in different charts.
CHAPTER 2: THE BASICS
THE BASIC DATA
Only two simple pieces of information are needed as a basis
for delineation: the birthdate, and the name given at birth. If
either is not available, a reading is not possible.
The birthdate is usually readily available. The birthname
may, at times, be more difficult to determine. When there's
any doubt, check the birth certificate if at all possible. Many
people change the spelling of their name or add or subtract
middle names. It's not uncommon to find a person surprised at
either the name or the spelling on the certificate. Even if the
name on the birth certificate has never been actively used, this
name is still one of the determinants."
(Neither the birthdate nor the birthname is accidental or
arbitrary. The soul comes to earth in a physical body to learn
lessons that can only be learned while in a material form. The
birthdate and birthname are determined for the soul. Your
birthdate was the best time to reappear on earth-with your
birthname-to learn the lessons your soul has chosen to learn.
Whether your parents searched long and hard for your name,
or came upon it in a flash, the name came to your parents
through universal wavelengths they probably didn't know
existed.)
The numerology described in this book is based on the twentysix letter Roman alphabet used in English and French speaking
countries. The same numerology system also applies if similar
alphabets, such as the twenty-eight letter alph~bet used in
Spanish-speaking coun.tries or the twenty-one letter Italian
alphabet, are used. >(The number values assigned to these different alphabets are given later in this chapter.) If a person were
named in an alphabet using other than Roman letters-Russian,
Japanese, Hebrew or Greek, for instance-the transliterated
name (the name as written in the Roman alphabet) will provide
the same accurate numerology reading.
Different
alphabets
Some names have to be slightly adjusted for use in a delinea- Special
tion, as follows: names
1. In some cultures, a person may be given seven or eight different names. A reading based on this long a name would be
diffused and give an inaccurate picture. Use birthnames, as
given, up to a maximum of four names. If a person has more
than four names, use only the first and last as the birthname.
Carolyn Emily Annette Crown is used as Carolyn Emily
Annette Crown.
Maria Luisa Juliana Aida Basile is used as Maria Basile.
15
16
Adopted
child's
name
'- .. (. \')"
PART 1: INTRODUCTION
2. If a name is hyphenated, eliminate the hyphen and use as
two separate names.
Betty-Jane Mosher is used as Betty Jane Mosher.
Richard Pettingbone-Wilson is used as Richard Pettingbone Wilson.
3. Combine a compound last name into one name.
Arthur van der Kalen is used as Arthur Vanderkalen.
Anna della Reese is used as Anna Dellareese.
4. Omit Jr. or Sr. or II, III, IV following the birthname.
Henry McAnn, Jr. is used as Henry McAnn.
Neil Harold Lewis III is used as Neil Harold Lewis.
There is one significant exception to the use of the
birthname. In the case of adoption, use the name the child is
given by the first family with whom the child resides on a permanent basis. The soul's linkage here is with the permanent
adoptive parents rather than with the foster parents or natural
parents.
"THE BASIC OPERATION
To start a delineation, we convert the birthdate and birthname into single digits or master numbers using the BASIC
OPERATION: Simply reduce the numbers by addition. For
example:
34
50
48
3 + 4
5 + 0
4 + 8
1,
g
12
12 is not a single digit or master number. Repeat the addition process.
12 1 + 2 ~
29 2 + 9 11
- (If a master number-ll or ·22-is reached, don't
reduce it to a single digit.)
CHAPTEIl 2: THE BASICS
To find the basic number corresponding to a year, use the
same process:
1952 1 + 9 + 5 + 2 = 17
1 + 7 = 8
1972 1 + 9 + 7 + 2 19
1 + 9 10
1 + 0 = 1
1975 = 1 + 9 + 7 + 5 = 22
(22 is a master number. Don't reduce it to a single unit.)
Names are similarly reduced by addition. Each letter in the
name is assigned a number based on its location in the twentysix letter English alphabet.
A, the first letter, is 1
B, the second letter, is 2
C, the third letter, is 3
J, the tenth letter, is 1
K, the eleventh lett€r; IS 2
L, the twelfth letter, is 3
S, the nineteenth letter, is 1
T, the twentieth letter, is 2
U, the twenty-first letter, is 3
Z, the twenty-sixth letter, is 8
(10 = 1 + 0 = 1)
(In assigning number values
to letters, all numbers are
reduced to a single digit.
Although K is the
eleventh letter, and will
be used as a master
number in other contexts, for these purposes
K is a 2.)
(11 1 + 1 = ~)
(12 1 + 2 = ~)
(19 1 + 9 = 10
10 1 + 0 = !)
(20 2 + o = ~)
(21 - 2 + 1 ~)
(26 2 + 6 ID
17
.~.
18
The number
value of
letters
'- .-('.).
PART I: INTRODUCTION
The number values of the twenty-six letter English alphabet
are summed up in this chart. (The French alphabet uses the same
twenty-six letters.)
1
A
J
S
2
B
K
T
345 6
C D E F
L M N 0
U V W X
7 8
G H
P Q
y z
9
I
R
The number values of the twenty-eight letter Spanish alphabet are:
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
A B C D E F G H I
J L M N 0 P Q R
N RR
S T U V X Y Z
CH LL
The number values for the twenty-one letter Italian alphabet ~
are:
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
A B C D E F G H I .
L M N 0 P Q R
S T U V Z
To find the basic number corresponding to a name, assign
each letter its number and reduce, by addition, to a single digit
or master number. For example:
ART H U R
1 + 9 + 2 + 8 + 3 + 9 32
3 + 2 = 5
K E V I N
2 + 5 + 4 + 9 + 5 = 25
2 + 5 = 7
K ARE N
2 + 1 + 9 + 5 + 5 = 22
With the completion of Part I, we've laid the foundation on
which to build your readings. In Part II, we'll use the BASIC
OPERATION-reducing the numbers by addition-to convert
the BASIC DATA-birthdate and birthname-into BASIC
NUMBERS with their symbolic meanings and proceed with the
beginnings of character delineation.
11
(f
~. ,.
'- ,.(' ,')..
PART II:
CHARACTER DELINEATIONTHE CORE
',' "_ J
,~ ,
.,
~ ~. I~. ~ ~
~. ~r '\
i;
.j
" "'<
~
.,
.,
'Y
,
;~
.. (' .-
.~ ,.
[.~. f~
iI
~: ,.
~
'" !~
!i
r~. ,.
THE CORE
THE CORE
There are approximately twenty numerology components
which are derived from a person's birthdate and birthname. A
complete character delineation evolves from the synthesis of
these many pieces. The core of a reading involves only four
of these elements. The core expresses the essence of a personhis direction, his strengths and weaknesses, his potential for
change and development.
If we think of a complete character delineation as comparable to a full-color portrait, the core would be equivalent to
a slightly fuzzy black-and-white reproduction of the portrait.
The core would be as rough and incomplete as the reproduction-but it would be accurate, and it would give us the major
characteristics just as the reproduction does. The reproduction
might show that the person has large almond-shaped eyes, but
until the color is add~d, you wouldn't know if they're black or
blue or brown;ana until the focus is sharpened, you can't really know if there's an especially lively glint in the eye. Similarly,
the core may tell you that the person is systematic and orderly.
But when color is added and the focus is sharpened (or in numerology terms, when the modifiers are added) the person may
be systematic to the point of stubbornness or rigidity.
The core, then, is the major determinant in the character delineation, and its power is diffused throughout the entire
reading. The core, while only part of the picture, is accurate as
jar as it goes.
The core consists of the following elements:
1. Life Path
2. Expression
3. Soul Urge
4. Birthday
21
CHAI'TEIl 3: THE LIFE PATH
CHAPTER 3
THE FIRST ELEMENT
OF THE CORE:
THE LIFE PATH
THE LIFE PATH IS THE MAJOR LESSON TO BE Definition
LEARNED IN THIS LIFE, THE CENTRAL FOCUS OF A
PERSON'S EXISTENCE. The Life Path is at the heart of the
core.
Let's look, for a moment, at the world in terms of reincarnation. Simply stated, reincarnation explains that the soul returns to earth !uphysical form -again and again, each time to
concentrate on a specific lesson. When the soul has absorbed all
the lessons, it no longer needs to return to earth, but can move
on to a higher plane. The specific lesson, determined by the
soul prior to assuming physical form, is the Life Path. Whether
you believe in reincarnation or not, the Life Path is still the
central focus of the life.
The Life Path (sometimes called the Birthforce, Birthpath or
Destiny) determines other related matters. It describes the opportunities available in order to learn the major lesson, as well
as the environment-the people and places-in which these opportunities are likely to be found. Some of a person's attitudes
and characteristics are determined by the Life Path, for these
traits are prescribed as an aid to the study of the main lesson.
Visualize the Life Path as a broad channel or highway running through all the possible activities a person may encounter
in a lifetime. The route holds the environment and all the opportunities for the study at hand. The channel is extremely
broad. People with the same Life Path may have different approaches to pursuing their study, but the channel is wide
23
24 PART II: THE CORE
enough to accommodate all comers. As long as a person stays on
the course, he will be contributing the maximum to his own
growth and development. Most people wander out of the channel from time to time; some people have difficulty finding the
channel (and a numerology reading may help them get their
bearings); and some few people choose to head off in some
other direction.
Calculation THE LIFE PATH IS DERIVED BY FINDING THE SUM
,_ .• r- \}.
OF THE MONTH, DAY AND YEAR OF BIRTH AND REDUCING THAT SUM TO A SINGLE DIGIT OR MASTER
NUMBER.
1. Determine the number representing the month, day and
year. Determine each separately.
MONTH:
January, the first month, has a value of .................. 1
February, the second month, has a value of ............... 2
March, the third month, has a value of. . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . .. 3
April, the fourth month, has a value of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 4
May, the fifth month, has a value of .............. , ...... 5
June, the sixth month, has a value of ..................... 6
July, the seventh month, has a value of ................... 7
,August, the eighth month, has a value of ................. 8
September, the ninth month, has a value of ............... 9
October, the tenth month, has a value of 10 = 1 + 0 = ... 1
November, the eleventh month, has a value of ............ 11
(master number, not reduced)
December, the twelfth month, has a value of 12 = 1 + 2 = 3
DAY:
Add the numbers and reduce to a single digit or a master number. For example:
lfthe birthday is the 1st, the value is . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1
2nd .............................. 2
9th ................ , ............. 9
10th = 10 = 1 + 0 = ............. 1
11th .............................. 11
(master number, not reduced)
12th 12 1 + 2 . . . . . . . . . . . .. 3
20th 20 2 + 0 . . . . . . . . . . . .. 2
21st 21 2 + 1 . . . . . . . . . . . .. 3
CHAPTER 3: THE LIFE PATH
22nd .............................. 22
(master number, not reduced)
23rd = 23 = 2 + 3 = ............. 5
YEAR:
Add the numbers and reduce to a single digit or a master number. For example:
1918 = 1 + 9 + 1 + 8 19
1 +- 9 = 10
1 + 0 1
1940 1 + 9 + 4 + 0 14
1 + 4 5
1975 1 + 9 + 7 + 5 22
(master number, not reduced)
2. Add together the numbers representing the month, day and
year. Reduce to a single digit or a master number.
Example: May 28, 1935
Month: May is the fifth month. Therefore, May 5.
Day: 28 = 2 + 8 = 10
= 1 + 0 = 1
Year: 1935 = 1 + 9 + 3 + 5 = 18
1 + 8 9
Write the numbers directly below the date: '- •• c' .'lMay 28, 1935
5 + -I + 9 15
1 + 5 = 6
The Life Path is 6
Example: November 4, _1975
Month: November is the eleventh month. Therefore,
November = 11
Day: 4
Year: 1975 = 1 + 9 + 7 + 5 = 22
Write the numbers directly below the date:
November 4, 1975
11 + 4 + 22 37
3+7=10
1 + 0 = 1
The Life Path is 1
25
',-
~ :,-;-
26
,_ ,.r- ,.,.
PART II: THE CORE
Always add the numbers after separately determining the number representing the month, day and year. If you add them all
at once, you may end up with a master number that doesn't
apply or lose a master number that should apply:
Example: March 12, 1940
Month: March is the third month. Therefore,
March = 3
Day: 12 = 1 + 2 = 3
Year: 1940 = 1 + 9 + 4 + 0 14
1 + 4
Write the numbers below the date:
March 12, 1940
3 +3+5=11
The Life Path is 11
5
Adding the numbers all together would have been incorrect:
March
--3
12, 1940
+ --~ 1+2 + 1+9+4+0 20
2 + 0 = 2
Incorrect.'
The master number
has been lost.
With just a little practice, you can do most of the work in
your head, and the first step of your numerology calculation
would look like this:
November 4, 1975
11 +4 + 22 = 37 10 1 Life Path
Chart 2: The Turn to CHART 2: THE LIFE PATH on page 236. Here you'll find
. Life Path discussions of the salient points of all the Life Paths.
Central The upper horizontal division, labeled "Central Focus," conFocus tains discussions of the main lesson of each Life Path. The
essence of the lessons are the keywords appearing adjacent to
the number at the top of the table. The discussion in this upper
division is an elaboration on the keywords. Read the central
'i.:
<l
,,'
CHAPTER 3: THE LIFE PATH
focus of your own Life Path and relate it to the keywords.
Compare the central focus of your Life Path with the basic
lesson of your Life Path number shown on Chart 1. Make this
comparison with a few Life Path numbers of people you know
well. You should begin to experience the simple relation between the charts, as well as the complex meanings of the
keywords and the numbers they represent.
The lower the number of the Life Path, the less complex and
more direct is the lesson to be assimilated. Life Paths 1 through
6 deal with fundamental concepts. Life-Paths 7, 8, and 9 are
dealing with more advanced understandings; in a sense, a
higher level of some of the lower numbered lessons. And 11 and
22 are concerned with most complex manifestations. The
higher the number of the Life Path, the greater the ultimate
potential and the more difficult the possibility of reaching that
potential.
Each soul determines its own Life Path before coming to
earth in a physical manifestation. The lessons are not learned in
consecutive order. Each lesson must usually be studied over a
period of many, many lifetimes.
The second horizontal division of Chart 2, labeled "Charac- Characterteristics," describes the traits and attitudes found with each istics
Life Path. All the traits are not developed to the same degree
of intensity in a person, though they are all usually apparent. Some of the traits are seemingly assets-the warmth and
friendliness of 3, the enthusiasm of 5. Some of the traits are
seemingly liabilities.----the self-centeredness of the 1 or the lack
of adaptability of the 7. But, as you work with these traits,
you'll see that they are not fixed assets or liabilities at all-each
trait can be thought of as a continuum of traits which run the
gamut from positive to negative. The enthusiasm of 5, for instance, can range from the positive pole of enthusiasm which
can make a vital contribution, to the negative pole of enthusiasm for every new exciting awareness, an enthusiasm which
makes it difficult for some 5's to stick to any project for any
length of time. The self-centeredness of the 1 can range from
the negative pole of complete self-centeredness to the exclusion
of all others' interests, to the positive pole of self-concern denoting a person's belief in himself or his work strong enough to
to push forward a project that would not succeed without this
added strength. -
As we proceed with the development of the art of character
delineation, it will sometimes be possible to clarify the extent to
which the various traits are positively or negatively expressed
for each person. For now, we must content ourselves with only
the awareness of the characteristics.
27
.0
'-'
,
.,
28
Negative
Expression
PART II: THE CORE
Most people are using their lives in a constructive manner.
In numerology terms, we would say that they are expressing
the positive side of their Life Path, the side of the Life Path discussed under "Central Focus." Everybody, from time to time,
and some few people almost all the time, express the negative
side of the path instead and live in a non-constructive (rarely
destructive) way. The "Negative Expression," the third horizontal division, defines the facets of this side of the character. A
person expresses negatively (a) when he exaggerates the lesson
of the Life Path to the point of unproductivity, or (b) when he
denies the lesson of the Life Path to express the very opposite of
the intended lesson.
Later on, we'll see how, in some cases, you can determine
whether this negative approach is stressed to the detriment of
the major lesson. Even when a person is following this negative
expression, he still possesses the traits noted in the "Characteristics" division, but he is apt to be emphasizing the negative end
of the continuum of some of the traits, at least.
Commentary The lower horizontal division of Chart 2 provides a "ComSample
reading
mentary" on some of the subtleties involved on each Life Path.
As you gain experience in numerology, these discussions should
help clarify some of the complexities you're likely to meet.
With an understanding of the Life Path, you now possess the
,single most important element of a character delineation. The
information you have is accurate, as far as it goes, but must be
.couched in careful terms to allow for the ample modifications
as you synthesize the many additional elements.
A sample reading with this limited information, might read
as follows:
The central focus of your life is the
learning of _________ _
Here are some of the attitudes and
traits you're likely to express: __ _
Like most people, there are times
when you aren't always expressing
the best that's in you. Sometimes,
Fill in with
"Central Focus"
information.
Fill in with
"C haracteristics"
information.
Fill in with "Negative Expression"
information: first,
CHAPTER 3: THE LIFE PATH
you're probably struggling with __
or with
the exaggeration oj
the lesson, and
second, the denial
oj the lesson.
When you begin doing delineations, you'll find that some Life Paths
people, although they recognize their characteristics quickly, of some
complain that they'd prefer a different Life Path to the one famous
they now have. You may want to remind them that it's possible
to lead a full, meaningful and productive life with a Life Path people
of any number.
Here, for instance, are the Life Paths of some famous people.
(The lesson of the Life Path in the examples chosen is most
visible to the public, but this isn't necessarily the case with the
Life Paths of all celebrated personalities.)
Martin Luther King (Michael Luther King), born January 15,
1929, with a Life Path of 1.
A life devoted to INDEPENDENCE and ATTAINMENT.
Henry Kissinger (Heinz Alfred Kissinger), born May 27, 1923,
with a Life Path of 2.
The quintessence of diplomacy, a master of RELATION and
COOPERATION.
Boris Pasternak (Boris Leonidovich Pasternak), born February
10, 1890, with a'"Life 'Path of 3.
The Nobel Prize winner, who made the most of EXPRESSION.
Sigmund Freud, born May 6, 1856, with a Life Path of 4.
The father of psychoanalysis, his contribution consisted of using ORDER and SERVICE.
Abraham Lincoln, born February 12, "1809, with a Life Path
of 5.
His name is almost synonymous with CONSTRUCTIVE
FREEDOM.
Dwight Eisenhower (David Dwight Eisenhower), born October 14, 1890, with a Life Path of 6.
He handled the Allied forces in World War II with BALANCE
and RESPONSIBILITY.
Eleanor Roosevelt (Anna Eleanor Roosevelt), born November
" 11, 1884, with a Life Path of 7.
A life of accomplishment based on ANALYSIS and UNDERSTANDING.
29
3U
. '- .. ( ,.
PART II: THE CORE
Andrew Carnegie, born November 25, 1835, with a Life Path
of 8.
A self-made millionaire, who learned about MATERIAL
SA TISF ACTION.
Mahatma Gandhi (Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi), born October 2, 1869, with a Life Path of 9.
The leader of India's independence drive was immersed in
ideas of SELFLESSNESS and HUMANITARIANISM.
Peter Hurkos (Peter Van Der Hurk), born May 21,1911, with a
Life Path of 11.
This psychic detective involved himself in the spiritual realms
of ILLUMINATION.
Joseph Kennedy (Joseph Patrick Kennedy), born September 6,
1888, with a Life Path of 22.
The multi-millionaire head of the Kennedy clan was a MASTER BUILDER.
The Life Path is fixed and unchangeable. No one can change
his birth date and therefore no one can change his Life Path.
Acceptance of the Life Path allows for full growth and productive development. Confidence in himself and his direction
allows a person to move forward to a positive destiny .
CHAPTER 4: THE EXPRESSION
CHAPTER 4
THE SECOND ELEMENT
OF THE CORE:
THE EXPRESSION
THE EXPRESSION IS A PERSON'S POTENTIAL NAT- Definition
URAL ABILITIES. The Expression is second in importance of
the four core elements.
All of us are gifted," in one 9irection or another, with our
own natural talerlls' and capabilities. The Expression, describing these abilities, is usually the part of a person which is most
visible to others. Because the Expression is often so apparent, it
should not be mistaken for the essence of a person. These
natural abilities are what we have to work with as we move
along the broad channel of the Life Path, and, as such, they are
less important than the -central focus of the Life Path. When
the Expression and the Life Path are harmonious, the visible
Expression may also reflect, to a large extent, the main lesson
delineated by the Life Path. When the Expression and the Life
Path are not harmonious, the Life Path may come as a surprise
to the observer who sees only the more obvious Expression.
A few numerologists feel that the Expression is the single
most important element in a reading. In my experience, I have
found that the Life Path holds the key to the understanding of
a person's nature in a way that the Expression does not. The
Life Path is fixed "(since the birth date can't be changed) but the
Expression, derived from the name, can be altered by changing
the name. To my way of thinking, this adds additional weight
31
~.
32
Calculation
PART II: THE CORE
to the importance of the Life Path over the Expression. As you
go along in your study, examine your own numbers and the
numbers of other people you know well. Compare the importance of the Life Path and the Expression in providing an
awareness of a person and draw your own conclusion. (If your
conclusion favors the Expression, consult the bibliography for a
view favoring this understanding.)
The Expression often describes the abilities used in the type
of work the person enjoys. For instance, a 6 Expression, with its
emphasis on balance and responsibility, may well indicate a
teacher, nurse or counselor. (People often fit their Expressions
into a broader spectrum of occupations than you might expect,
though, because they concentrate on that part of the work
which is emphasized by their Expressions. That same 6 Expression may be used by an administrator running a small private
school, a bookkeeper in a clinic, or the head of the production
department in an engineering office. These people are expressing the helpfulness and conscientiousness, the balancing and
adjusting abilities, the responsibility capabilities of the 6 in the
performance of their jobs. The job description doesn't stress the
6 talents as much as the job description for the teacher, nurse or
counselor, but the administrator, bookkeeper and production
head choose to stress their 6 abilities in carrying out their work.
It's usually more helpful to describe a person's abilities in a
reading, rather than to list vocations which seem to fit the
Expression. )
Along with these abilities, the Expression also describes the
kinds of attitudes which are usually to be found with these talents. These attitudes are usually as visible as the abilities.
THE EXPRESSION IS DERIVED BY FINDING THE
SUM OF THE NUMBER VALUES OF ALL THE LETTERS
IN EACH NAME, REDUCING THIS SUM TO A SINGLE
DIGIT OR MASTER NUMBER, THEN ADDING THE
SUMS OF ALL THE NAMES TOGETHER AND REDUCING THAT TOTAL TO A SINGLE DIGIT OR MASTER
NUMBER.
1. Consult the table on page 18 to find the numerical value of
each letter. Place this numerical value below each letter:
LOU I S E
363915
KAREN
21955
CASPER
311759
2.- Add the numbers in each name together. Reduce this sum to
a single digit or master number.
i:
CHAPTER 4: THE EXPRESSION 33
LOUISE 3 + 6 + 3 + 9 + 1 + 5 = 27
= 2 + 7 9
KAREN 2 + 1 + 9 + 5 + 5 = 22
(Master number, not reduced)
CASPER 3 + 1 + 1 + 7 + 5 + 9 = 26
= 2 + 6 = 8
3. Add the numbers obtained for each name together. Reduce
this sum to a single digit or master number:
9 + 22 + 8 39
3 + 9 = 12
1 + 2 = 3
The Expression is 3
4. On a numerology chart, the calculation would look like this:
(The numbers in parentheses represent subtotals which are further reduced.)
LOUISE
363915
(27) 9 +
KAREN
2 1 955
22 +
CASPER
311759
(26) 8
Here are a few additional examples:
HOWARD JOSEPH SNYDER
8 6 5 1 9 4 J 6 1 5 7 -8 1 5 7 4 5 9 • ( ,j.
39
12
3 Expression
(33) 6 + (28) (10) 1 + (31) 4 = 11 Expression
SYLVIA ANNE PASETTA
173491 1555 7115221
(25) 7 + (16) 7 + (19) 1 15
6 Expression
Always add the numbers of each name separately, then add
these totals together. If you add all the numbers of all the
names all together at once, you may end up with a master
number that doesn't apply or lose a master number that should
apply.
Turn to CHART 3: EXPRESSION on page 250. Here you'll find Chart 3: The ')
discussions of the different Expressions. Expression
::-.'
34 PART II: THE CORE
Abilities The upper horizontal division of this chart, labeled "Abilities,"
describes the capabilities and talents possessed by each Expression. Some of these may be latent, but most of them are operating and are apparent.
Positive
attitudes,
negative
attitudes
- .. (-.).
Sample
reading
The middle and lower divisions of the chart, labeled "Positive Attitudes" and "Negative Attitudes," describe the harmonious and discordant extremes of all the Expressions. For
example, a person with a 1 Expression may be ambitious and
determined (positive attitude) or too aggressive (negative attitude). A person with a 4 Expression may be systematic and
orderly (positive attitude) or have a rigid, stubborn approach
(negative attitude). Each of these examples expresses the extremes of one particular attitude. Although the chart lists the
extremes for ease in syntheses to be developed, begin to be
aware of the continuums which are present. The knowledge of
the continuums will help as you become more experienced in
delineating.
Later, when we synthesize all four of the elements of the
core, we will often be able to see which attitudes a person is
more likely to express, and, sometimes, whether the positive or
negative side is expressed. SiIice the delineation describes attitudes in effect throughout a person's life, we must be aware
that, at different periods in life a person may express different
parts of the range of a particular attitude. A person with a 3
~xpression may, when young, be something of a dilettante in
scattering his forces (negative attitude). As he matures, he may
express the joy of living instead, colored with optimism and enthusiasm (positive attitude). It's also possible that he may start
out in life expressing the joy of living and regress to something
of a dilettante.
We cannot know precisely at what point a person will be
along the range of a particular attitude at any specific time, but
the synthesis will clarify the basic attitudes and the probable
thrust of that attitude. The art of delineation will allow us to
read the Expression for any time in a person's life and provide
an interpretation most useful to the person at the time of the
reading.
The reading of the Expression, without any additional information, provides some awareness of a person's abilities. The
information is accurate, as jar as it goes, but must be worded
to allow for the changes which are likely to take place as we
combine the Expression with the other elements.
CHAPTEIl 4: THE EXl'llESSION
A sample reading might read as follows:
You probably have most of the following
abilities: _____________ _
When you put your best foot forward,
you're likely to
At times, like all of us, you're not always
expressing your positive potential. At these
times, you're likely to be ______ _
Fill in with
''Abilities''
information.
Fill in with
"Positive
Attitudes"
information.
Fill in the
"Negative
Attitudes "
information.
The abilities and attitudes described by the Expression
derived from your birthname are likely to be with you all your
life. When your name changes-by marriage, by deleting your
middle name, by using a nickname-the given Expression remains but the abilities and attitudes may be modified by the
Expression derived from the new name. (We'll discuss all the
ramifications of name changes later on in Volume 2, Chapter
24.) The basic talents are usually there for the whole life,
though sometimes ove~laid by I!ew and different emphases and
additions.- .(. >
35
.~
-~ .
.. (-
CHAPTER 5: THE SOUL URGE
CHAPTER 5
THE THIRD ELEMENT
OF THE CORE:
THE SOUL URGE
THE SOUL URGE IS A PERSON'S INNER MOTIV A- Definition
TION, WHAT HE WANTS TO BE, TO HAVE AND TO DO.
The Soul Urge is third in importance of the four core elements.
The Soul Urge (sometimes known as the Heart's Desire, the
Motivation or the Ideality) is concerned with deep inner longings. These longings ~xpress those matters which seem most
important totlie'person, and these important m~tters are influential in determining tl)e person's point of view, the principles
on which he acts, his general approach.
Occasionally, when the Soul Urge is harmonious with other
parts of the core, it may be visible so that others are aware of it.
For most people, the Soul Urge is below the surface, rarely ex~
pressed openly. Many people seem almost unaware of their
own Soul Urge, although they can readily identify with it when
it is described. To the outside observer, the delineation of the
Soul Urge often serves as a key to an understanding of a person,
clarifying the person's actions and approaches in a most revealing way.
As we proceed along the broad channel of the Life Path, we
are guided by the motivations of the Soul Urge. If our longings are easy to satisfy within our own broad channel, we are
apt to benefit from the available possibilities. If we want something which we perceive as unavailable on our channel, or
37
,',
:)..
38 PART II: THE CORE
more available on another channel, we may be subject to conflict in deciding on which channel we choose to operate. When
we synthesize the core elements, we will become familiar
with how these disparate elements may be joined for positive
development.
Calculation THE SOUL URGE IS DERIVED BY FINDING THE SUM
. '- ,.('.,.
OF THE NUMBER VALUES OF THE VOWELS IN EACH
NAME, REDUCING THIS SUM TO A SINGLE DIGIT OR
MASTER NUMBER, THEN ADDING THE SUMS OF ALL
THE NAMES TOGETHER AND REDUCING THAT TOTAL TO A SINGLE DIGIT OR MASTER NUMBER.
There is at least one vowel in every syllable.
A, E, I, 0, U are always vowels. Their value, from the table on
page 18, is:
A
E
I
o
U
1
5
9
6
3
Y is sometimes a vowel. Its value is 7. Y is a vowel when there is
,no otheryowel in a syllable .
Example: rvonne, SIlvia, Larrx
Y is a vowel when it is preceded by A, E, r; 0, U and sounded
as one sound.
Example: Haxden, DoxIe, Raxmond
W is sometimes a vowel. Its value is 5. W is a vowel when it is
preceded by A, E, I, 0, U and sounded as one sound.
Example: Bradsha~, Matthe~, Lo~ell
l. Place the numerical value of each vowel above the vowel:
1 3 5 9 6
ARTHUR TRENT WILSON
2. Add the numbers in each name together. Reduce this sum to
a single digit or master number.
CHAPTER 5: THE SOUL URGE
ARTHUR
TRENT
WILSON
1 + 3 = 4
= 5
9 + 6 = 15
= 1 + 5 = 6
3. Add the numbers obtained for each name together. Reduce
this sum to a single digit or master number.
4 + 5 + 6 15
1 + 5 = 6
The Soul Urge is 6
4. On a numerology chart, the calculation would look like this:
(The number in parentheses represents a subtotal which is further reduced.)
4 5 (15) 6 15 6 Soul Urge
1 3 5 9 6
ARTHUR TRENT WILSON
Here aie a few additional examples:
(16) 7 + 11 + 8 = 26 = 8 Soul Urge
655 1 91 3 5
LOWELL ADRIAN HUNTER
(14) 5 + (17) 8 + 9 22 Soul Urge
1 6 7 7 91 63
CAROI,.XrN. SYLVIA - YOUNG
Always add the numbers of the vowels of each name separately,then add these totals together. If you add the vowels of
all the names together, you may end up with a master number
that doesn't apply or lose a master number that should apply.
For instance, in the name Carolyn Sylvia Young above, if the
vowels are added together, you get 1 + 6 + 7 + 7 + 9 + 1
+ 6 + 3 = 40 = 4 Soul Urge, and the 22 Master Number has
been lost.
CHART 4: THE SOUL URGE, on page 264, discusses the different
Soul Urges.
The upper horizontal division of this chart, labeled
"Motives," describes the person's inner motivation. The middle
and lower divisions of the chart, labeled "Positive Attitudes"
and "Negative Attitudes," describe the most harmonious and
most discordant extrem~s of the attitudes just as Chart 3 did for
the Expression.
Chart 4: The
Soul Urge
39
40
Sample
reading
PART II: THE CORE
The reading of the Soul Urge without any additional information provides some awareness of the person's inner motivation. The information is accurate, as far as it goes, but must be
expressed to allow for the modifications which will take place
when the synthesis of the core elements proceeds.
A sample reading might read as follows:
You are apt to want ________ _
You are probably ________ _
but you can also be _________ _
Fill in with
"Motives"
information.
Fill in with
"Positive
Attitudes"
information.
Fill in with
"Negative
Attitudes"
information.
The motivations and attitudes described by the Soul Urge
derived from your birthname are with you all your life. When a
person changes his name, the primary motivations and attitudes remain, but are often modified by new and different
emphases derived from the Soul Urge of the new name. (We'll
discuss the effect of name changes in Volume 2, Chapter 24.)
.. ~ ,)
....
CHAPTER 6: THE BIRTHDAY
CHAPTER 6
THE FOURTH ELEMENT
OF THE CORE:
THE BIRTHDAY
THE BIRTHDAY IS A SUB-LESSON TO BE LEARNED Definition
IN THIS LIFE, A SUB-FOCUS ON THE LIFE PATH. The
Birthday is fourth in importance of the four core elements.
The Birthday is one 9f the numbers added together to derive
the Life Path':':"'::or; in numerology terms, the Birthday is one of
the numbers behind the Life Path. Later on, we will see that
all the numbers behind the Life Path, Expression and Soul Urge
are sub-influences. The Birthday is the only sub-influence
important enough to be part of the core.
THE BIRTHDAY IS DERIVED BY REDUCING THE DAY Calculation
OF BIRTH TO A SINGLE DIGIT OR MASTER NUMBER.
If you're born on the 1st of any month, for instance, your
Birthday is 1; on the 16th, your Birthday is 7 (1 + 6 = 7); on
the 23rd, your Birthday is 5 (2 + 3 = 5).
In Chapter 3, we visualized each Life Path as a broad chan- Chart 5:
nel or highway. Now, visualize the highway of each Life Path The Birthday
divided into eleven lanes, one for each Birthday: 1 through 9,
plus the master numbers 11 and 22. Everyone on the particular
41
~'.
42
.• f· ).
PART II: THE CORE
highway is learning the same major lessons, but the lane occupied by each person presents an additional sub-lesson modifying the main focus of the Life Path.
If we look at the 3 lane, for example, we see it further subdivided into four divisions, one representing a day of birth on the
3rd, one a day of birth on the 12th (1 + 2 = 3), one a day of
birth on the 21st (2 + 1 = 3), and one a day of birth on the
30th (3 + 0 = 3). These four all have the same sub-lesson of
3, but each has slightly different traits and attitudes because of
the different numbers behind the sub-lesson number.
The highway of each Life Path, then, is actually divided into
31 divisions, each representing the sub-focus, traits and attitudes determined by the day of the month on which a person is
born.
CHART 5: THE BIRTHDAY, on page 278, provid~s readings for
each of the Birthdays.
The sub-lessons are the keywords related to the single digit or
master number of each Birthday and are found at the top of
each page of the chart adjacent to the large number. The attitudes and abilities for each day of birth are listed under the
appropriate day of the month.
Let's, for example, look at the different numbers on the 3
Birthday page.
A birthday on the 3rd of any month:
Sub-lesson: Expression. Joy of living.
Emphasis on 3 attitudes and abilities only.
No sub-emphasis on other energies .
A birthday on the 12th of any month:
Sub-lesson: Expression. Joy of living.
Emphasis on 3 attitudes and abilities.
Sub-emphasis on 1 and 2 attitudes and abilities (1 and 2
are the numbers behind the birthday of 12).
A birthday on the 21st of any month:
Sub-lesson: Expression. Joy of living.
Emphasis on 3 attitudes and abilities.
Sub-emphasis on 2 and 1 attitudes (2 and 1 are numbers behind the birthday of 21).
A birthday on the 30th of any month:
Sub-lesson: Expression. Joy of living.
Emphasis on 3 attitudes and abilities. Similar to 3 Birthday but the energy is more strongly expressed here.
(30 is a higher octave of 3, meaning that the 3 traits
are intensified. The "good conversationalist" ability
CHAPTER 6: THE BIRTHDAl'
of the 3, for instance, is replaced by "excellent conversationalist" of the 30; the "affectionate and loving"
3 is replaced by the "very affectionate and loving" 30.
20 is, similarly, a higher octave of 2, and 10 a higher
octave of 1.)
No sub-emphasis on other energies.
As you look over Chart 5, you'll see that several days show
a special emphasis. The 11th is a master number with traits
relating not only to 11 but also to its reduced level 2. The 22nd
is a master number with traits relating not only to 22 but also to
its reduced level 4. (In Chapter 8, we'll discuss the master
numbers in detail.) The 13th, 14th, 16th, and 19th are birthdays related to karmic influences, and there's a negative emphasis here. (In Chapter 11, we'll discuss the karmIC influences
in detail.)
The sub-lesson of the Birthday is of much less importance Relative
than the major lesson of the Life Path. The sub-focus should be importance
considered primarily as an influence on the central focus. A 6
Life Path is always focused on balance, responsibility and love,
for instance, but a 4 Birthday would assist the balance and responsibility part of the main lesson with a sub-lesson of limitation, order and service, while a 5 Birthday is apt to hinder the
main lesson with the 5's focus on constructive freedom .
. 0(' ,).
The reading for the Birthday would be used as an adjunct to Sample
the reading for the Life Path. A sample reading might be as reading
follows:
Your major lesson of --.,... ___ _
_________ is modified by
a minor lesson of _______ _
Here are some of the attitudes and
traits you may express: ____ _
Complete with Life
Path keywords.
Complete with
Birthday keywords.
Complete with
information derived
from the Birthday
description.
Like the Life Path, the Birthday is fixed and unchangeable.
The influence of the sub~focus is sure to be felt, no matter how
the traits involved are used or allowed to remain latent.
43
.(
CHAPTER 7: CORE SYNTHESIS
CHAPTER 7
SYNTHESIS OF THE
CORE ELEMENTS
The core, as we mentioned previously, is the major determinant in a character delineation. In this chapter, we'll first examine the principles involved in synthesizing the elements into
the core. Then we'll proceed, step-by-step, in the delineation of
a complete core synthesis, clarifying the way in which each
portion of the synthesis is developed using the above principles.
Finally, we'll explore some of the assumptions underlying these ,. ,_ .• r ,.,. .
guiding principles.
Four simple principles are involved in core synthesis:
1. The relative ppwer of the elements.
2. The modifying abilities of the elements.
3. The harmony or discord among the elements.
4. The effectiveness of the combined elements.
We'll explore each of these principles, then put them to work.
1. The Relative Power of the Core Elements
Principles
of core
synthesis
Relative
Here's a diagram of the core, showing the relations of the power
elements:
45
>
{
46
,_ ,.f'.).
PART II: THE CORE
LIFE PATH
EXPRESSION ---I------\-i::---
SOUL URGE
BIRTHDAY
It's apparent that each core element has a different size, representing their different relative powers. The Life Path has the
most power. It provides approximately fifty percent of the
power of the corBo The Expression is responsible for about thirty percent of the power while the Soul Urge provides only
about twenty percent. The force of the Life Path is approximately equal to the forces of the Expression and Soul Urge combined. The Birthday strength is far less than the other elements.
It represents about a fifth the power of the Life Path (115 x 50)
or ten percent of the strength of the core. The Birthday, then, is
only about a third as strong as the Expression and about half as
strong as the Soul Urge. (As the diagram shows, the Birthday is
always treated as an integral part of the Life Path.)
Perhaps this drawing shows the relative power of the core
elements even more dramatically:
~;~~d~il§ Life Path § =IO%of + ..
Core)
Life Path Expression
50% 30%
(includes
Birthday)
Soul Urge
20%
= Core
The synthesis, of course, must reflect the relative power of
the elements. For instance, a core with a 3 Life Path and a
22 Soul Urge would produce an emphasis on the 3. Half the
strength of the core would be related to the 3 potential and only
about one-fifth of the strength to the 22, so that the 3 potential
would govern. If the situation was reversed, with a 22 Life
Path and a 3 Soul Urge, the emphasis would, of course, shift to
the 22 potential.
In numerology terms, the relative power is expressed in relation to the position of the number. A number is most powerful
in the Life Path position, less powerful in the Expression position, and weaker yet in the Soul Urge position. The position of
the number, therefore, determines how strong an influence it
represents in the core. The relative power is expressed in a core
. delineation by devoting an amount of writing (or speaking) to
each element proportional to the power of that element.
CHAPTER 7: CORE SrNTHESIS
2. The Modifying Abilities of the Elements
Looking back at the first core diagram, on page 46, the overlapping of the circles representing the elements indicates that
the potentials of the elements modify or alter the potentials of
the other elements. Referring to the diagram:
The Life Path is modified by the Expression, Soul Urge
and Birthday.
The Expression is modified by the Life Path and Soul
Urge. _
The Soul Urge is modified by the Life Path and Expression.
The Birthday modifies the Life Path.
The core relations translate into relations in a person's life.
The central- focus of a life, for instance, is altered by the
person's abilities and motivations, as well as by his sub-focus.
This is just another way of expressing the other core elements
acting on the Life Path. The other elements can be expressed in
a similar manner.
How do we determine how the elements are altered? Let's
look to the other two principles.
3. The Harmony or Discord Among the Elements
Suppose you have two core elements, one with a 6 potential,
the other with a 2 potential. The 6 force is involved with handling responsibility, creating bal-ance, providing love and harmony, sympathy and understanding. The 2 energy is concerned
with adaptability, consideration, relating and cooperating with
others. The forces of the 6 and 2 work well together with mutually beneficial energies. The 6 potential and the 2 potential
are, in general, a harmonious combination.
What happens when we deal with a combination of 6 and 7
energies? The 6 force is, as before, involved with caring for
others, expressing love and friendship, working to balance and
harmonize relations. The 7 force is introspective, focused on
studying, learning, analyzing, developing wisdom and spiritual
awareness. Can you see that the concerns of the 6 involve relations with others, usually in everyday, down-to-earth situations, while the 7 grows inwardly, quietly, possibly spiritually,
somewhat apart from practical affairs? These two forces are
traveling in different directions, working toward different
goals. The 6 potential and the 7 potential are, in general, a discordant combination.
In the same way, we 'can analyze the relations between all
Modifying
abilities
Harmony
or discord
47
48 PART II: THE CORE
the combinations of potentials. We'll find, though, that the
harmony or discord of many combinations are far less obvious
than the examples just shown.
Look, for example, at a blending of a 1 potential with a 5 potential. The 1 is working to acknowledge its individuality, to
express its independence, to attain as a leader or creator, while
the 5, with many talents and many opportunities, is developing
the constructive use of freedom. If the 1 has advanced to the
point of attainment as a director or pioneer and can fuse this
energy with the 5 potential to harness the available talents and
opportunities, there can be an extremely harmonious combination. But suppose, instead, that the 1 is struggling just to become independent while the 5 is being overwhelmed by the
change and variety in his life, the constant flux in the environment. The attempted stability of the 1 is at odds with the emphasis on the instability of the 5-a very discordant merger.
The 1·5 combination is, therefore, sometimes harmonious
and sometimes discordant. That seems somewhat harder to
handle than our first examples. In reconsidering that harmonious 6·2 combination, suppose the 6 potential is so responsible
for family and friends that his own needs are virtually submerged while the 2 force is concentrating on helping everyone
cooperate, again to the exclusion of his own needs. There's a
good chance that the over-responsible 6 fused with the overzealous 2 will be reduced to a doormat in the name of helping
others, producing a discordant blending rather than the previous harmony.
'. The (act is that the combination of any two potentials can
produce a harmonious or a discordant resultant. This corroborates my own experiences with numbers-and most people's
. experiences with other people. As you work with the numbers,
I expect you'll draw the same conclusion. This is quite a complex situation I An understanding of this complexity is a vital
link in producing delineations. I've dealt with this matter at
length so you won't be apt to forget it or neglect it or attempt to
reduce it to some simple formula when it is, in reality, sprawling and untidy.
Let's accept that either harmony or discord can be produced
by combining any two energies. But, let's also recognize that a
given combination USUALLY produces one or the other. Some
fusions are more consistent than others. The 6·2 combination is
almost always harmonious, and so is 3·6. The 6·7 combination
is almost always discordant, and so are 4·5 and 8·11. The 1·5
combination is harder to predict. So are 6'9 and 2·3.
For our beginning syntheses, we'll assume that the usual re-
.:mltant is the only resultant. We can produce a reasonably good
delineation with that assumption, although we can delineate a
CHAPTER 7: CORE SYNTHESIS
more meaningful reading (as we will later on) by accepting the
complexity which exists.
Turn to CHART 6: THE ASPECTS, on page 292, and you'll find Chart 6:
the usual resultants of all the combinations. The word "usually" The Aspects
is stressed, as you can see, and most combinations are noted as
USUALLY harmonious or USUALLY discordant. There's one
other resultant shown: The combinations_of identical numbers,
1·1,2·2,3'3, are labeled USUALLY very discordant. Chapter 9
is devoted to this special case. Hold off on delineations with
these combinations until after we've developed the general
case.
Some of the combinations or aspects in Chart 6 show the opposite resultant in parentheses below the usual resultant. Become familiar with these possibilities as you begin working on
delineations.
Chart 6 is different than any other chart in the book. It's the
only chart which compares a combination of potentials. But, as
you use it, remember that these resultants and the discussions
which follow them are meant primarily to assist you in the beginning. These comparisons are based on my experience with
numbers, and the discussions are limited by the available space.
But there's nothing sacred about the discussions. Your experience in delineation will provide you with your own resultants
and reasons. Probably, many of your conclusions will be similar
to mine, but if you see the world, and the resultants differently,
and you aregairtingand giving insight with your readings,
then, by all means, follow your own instincts.
It might seem that the best core would be one where all the
combinations of elements are harmonious. When this does occur, the lack of discord may make for a comparatively comfortable use of the energies involved, but may tend to inhibit
growth and development.
I rarely think of "best" or "worst" in the context of numerology. Each life is developed from its own potentials and each
of us can deal only with the potentials we possess. You can only
express, at best, the highest level of your own potentials. It will
not benefit you to compare yourself (or anyone else) with
others. People have their own potentials and are operating only
within those contexts.
We have been dealing with the harmony or discord of combined energies. Harmonious energies do not guarantee harmonious lives, just as discordant energies do not necessarily produce
discordant lives. Along with the energies a person possesses, he
still has the free will to determine how to use these forces, and
49
:.i.
to.
~.:,
50 PART II: THE CORE
he operates in an environment which exerts its own effect. Free
will and environment playa large part in determining the harmony or discordance of lives, as we'll see when we discuss these
important factors at the end of this chapter.
Effectiveness 4. The Effectiveness of the Combined Elements
- -,(, ).
Imagine that Bertha and Eddie are contemplating starting a
business together. Bertha is full of creative ideas and Eddie is a
superb organizer, capable of dealing with people, money and
all the other details that are involved in a business. Clearly,
these two people have harmonious energies.
Eddie is very dynamic. He rises at dawn and is energetic until late at night, demanding a great deal quickly and efficiently
from himself and his associates. Bertha is a different type-very
quiet and contemplative. She may spend weeks alone, honing
an idea to perfection. She doesn't like to be interrupted when
she is working creatively-she wants to complete her project
before discussing it with others. The harmony of her creativity
and his organizational abilities will be severely tested by the effectiveness (or in this case, ineffectiveness) of their combined
energies.
Harmony or discord, then, is only one way of looking at a
combination of elements, and effectiveness, or workability, is
another. In a character delineation, effectiveness is a measure
of the relative levels of the opportunities (the Life Path), the
.. abilities- (the Expression) and the motivations (the Soul Urge).
By determining the effectiveness, you can recognize whether a
. person possesses enough abilities and motivations to take advantage of his opportunities, and enough motivation to use his
_ abilities. (The Birthday is treated as part of the Life Path and is
not compared in effectiveness with the other elements.)
Think of the Life Path as a pitcher, with the size of the pitcher determined by the number of the Life Path. A 1 Life Path is
the smallest pitcher, a 2 somewhat larger, a 22 the largest of
all. Imagine filling the pitcher with a liquid representing the
Expression. A 1 Expression would represent just a little bit of
liquid while 22 would portray the largest quantity of liquid.
Consider a subject with a 22 Life Path and a 1 Expression.
We have then, in the analogy, a large pitcher with almost nothing in it. The subject will be hard pressed to use his abilities to
take advantage of the substantial opportunities which are present. This is a combination lacking in effectiveness.
Looking at the other extreme, we have a similar ineffective
blend. If we attempt to fill a 1 Life Path pitcher with 22 Expression liquid, we have a small, full pitcher with most of the
CHAPTER 7: CORE SYNTHESIS
liquid wasted. A subject with this combination would have difficulty finding suitable opportunities to use his abilities.
The most effective combination is represented by a comfortably filled pitcher. A 5 Life Path with a 3 or 4 Expression is effective, as is a 6 Life Path with a 7 or 8 Expression. Again, we'll
leave the combination where the elements are the same number
to Chapter 9.
When we imagine the Life Path as the pitcher with the Soul
Urge the liquid, we can determine the effectiveness of the opportunities combined with the motivations. Similarly, the relation between motivation and ability uses the Expression as
pitcher with the Soul Urge as liquid.
Let's examine the effectiveness of the different combinations.·
The combinations are listed by the number of spaces between
the elements under consideration.
a. If both elements are 9 or below, subtract the lower from the
higher.
For example, with an 8 Life Path and a 5 Soul Urge, there
are 3 spaces (8 minus 5) between the elements. Or, with a 2
Expression and a 9 Soul Urge, there are 7 (9 minus 2) spaces
between. .
b. If either or both elements are 11 or 22, assume one space
between 9 and 11, and one space" again between 11 and 22.
With a 6 Expression and an 11 Soul Urge: {
3 + 1 = 4 spaces between 6 and 11 -'----
6789 11 •• ,_ •• (, \)0.
With a 4 Life Path and a 22 Expression:
5 + 1 + 1 = 7 spaces between 4 and 22 ~-'-.
4 5 6 7 8 9 11 22
TABLE OF EFFECTIVENESS Table of
Effectiveness
LIFE PATH/EXPRESSION
LIFE PATH HIGHER THAN THE EXPRESSION BY 6
OR MORE SPACES (Opportunities substantially outweigh
abilities. )
You will have to work to find just the right environment to
make use of your natunil talents. It may be frustrating when
some of these aptitudes don't mesh with your opportunities in
51
52 PART II: THE CORE
the ways you expect or aren't appreciated in circumstances
which seem appropriate to you. You may be impatient. Your
growth and development, no matter how fast, is apt to proceed
too slowly for your own satisfaction. Learn to pursue your
main lesson at the natural pace that presents itself.
(When the Life Path is higher than the Expression by 7 or more
spaces, the ineffectiveness of the combination, with its attendant frustrations and disappointments, will form a strong part
of the subject's core.)
LIFE PATH HIGHER THAN THE EXPRESSION BY 3, 4 OR
5 SPACES (Opportunities outweigh abilities.)
The opportunities are there, but you will have to work to take
advantage of them. You must stretch your talents to meet your
experiences. The expansion of your natural capabilities can
lead to growth, to the realization of higher conditions of life for
yourself. Expend time and effort appraising your strengths and
weaknesses. A realistic awareness and acceptance of these potentials will be significant in your positive development. Be
especially realistic in examining the available opportunities.
LIFE PATH HIGHER OR LOWER THAN THE EXPRESSION BY 1 OR 2 SPACES (Effective balance of opportunities
and abilities.)
You have the potential to take advantage of the opportunities
presented with relative ease, to make the most of the experiences ·which come your way. Your natural abilities will probably find ample field for expression. The ~nvironment will
. allow your talents to be displayed and appreciated. As your
capabilities find the opportunities to expand to meet their potential, your development will progress in a manner which 'may
bring you much satisfaction.
LIFE PATH LOWER THAN THE EXPRESSION BY 3, 4 OR
5 SPACES (Abilities outweigh opportunities.)
The opportunities are present, but not as many as you would
like, and often in an unclear or deceptive form. Learn to evaluate your opportunities and to perceive when more is promised
than can be delivered. If you have deceived yourself or been
deceived, don't continue but move to another lead. You will
probably have to develop your talents primarily on your ownthe people and surroundings will only rarely provide help.
Develop faith in your own capabilities rather than expecting
. aid from outside yourself. Have patience even t}:lough your development proceeds more slowly than you would prefer.
CHAPTER 7: CORE SYNTHESIS
LIFE PATH LOWER THAN THE EXPRESSION BY 6 OR
MORE SPACES (Abilities substantially outweigh opportunities. )
You will have to study your environment with care to find opportunities to take advantage of your natural talents. The peo-_
pIe and situations you meet often don't present the potential for
growth you are seeking. Often, the development you are expecting does not materialize, even though you have performed
well. It may be frustrating to be aware of your capabilities
and yet have to work so hard to find a satisfactory path for
their use. Learn not to demand more of the world around you
than is realistically there. Pursue your main lesson at the
natural pace that presents itself.
(When the Life Path is lower than the Expression by 7 or more
spaces, the ineffectiveness of the combination, with its attendant frustrations and disappointments, will form a strong part
of the subject's core.)
LIFE PATH/SOUL URGE
LIFE PATH HIGHER THAN THE SOUL URGE BY 6 OR
MORE SPACES (Opportunities substantially outweigh motivations.)
Although ynu mayor may not have a clear understanding of
your inner needs, these needs are rarely strong enough to act as
your primary motivati~g force. X our reactions to the people
and situations ih 'Wliich you come in contact will direct the
course of your development to a greater extent than your need
to fulfil your inner urges. Because these experiences are not an
integral part of you, you may find yourself driven by motivations which are often unclear to you and do not necessarily
bring the satisfaction of growth.
(When the Life Path is higher than the Soul Urge by 7 or more
spaces, the ineffectiveness of the combination, with its compulsive motivation based on experience, will form a strong part of
the subject's core.)
LIFE PATH HIGHER THAN THE SOUL URGE BY 3,4 OR
5 SPACES (Opportunities outweigh motivations.)
Although you are able to recognize your opportunities, you
don't always feel the need to pursue them. Sometimes, you do
follow your inner urges and take advantage of the possibilities.
But, probably just about as often, you develop the experience
at hand and follow where the experiences lead. You may have
difficulty understanding or dealing with people pushed by
53
:-.. "
54 PART II: THE CORE
strong inner needs or desirous of pushing you to advance yourself. Most of the time, you are likely to be content with the natural pace of your development.
LIFE PATH HIGHER OR LOWER THAN THE SOUL
URGE BY 1 OR 2 SPACES (Effective balance of opportunities
and motivations.)
You are well motivated to recognize and take advantage of
your opportunities with relative ease. You make the most of the
experiences which come your way. You are usually on the lookout for ways to best develop yourself, ways to satisfy your inner
desires. Your environment probably reinforces your motivations to allow them full play. You are apt to find much growth
in the satisfaction of your· inner urges.
LIFE PATH LOWER THAN THE SOUL URGE BY 3,4 OR 5
SPACES (Motivations outweigh opportunities.)
Although you are able to recognize your opportunities, you find
somewhat fewer possibilities than you would like to advance
your inner development. The experiences at hand, while not
necessarily presenting opportunities to fulfill your inner needs,
are apt to act as a secondary motivating force. Make the most
of these experiences. Learn to accept the natural pace of your
development.
LIFE PATH LOWER THAN THE SOUL URGE BY 6 OR
.. ! > MORK SPACES (Motivations substantially outweigh opportunities.)
Although you have a strong sense of your inner needs, you may
have to search diligently to satisfy these desires. Your reactions
to the people and situations in which you come in contact will
direct the course of your development to a greater extent than
the available opportunities. Use the opportunities when they
appear. Make the most of the experience when the opportunities you would like are not available. Your development is likely to proceed more slowly than you would like. Be patient and
grow at the natural pace which you find.
(When the Life Path is lower than the Soul Urge by 7 or more
spaces, the ineffectiveness of the combination, with its attendant frustrations, will form a strong part of the subject's core.)
EXPRESSION/SOUL URGE
. EXPRESSION HIGHER THAN THE SOUL URGE BY 6 OR
MORE SPACES (Abilities substantially outweigh motivations.)
CHAPTER 7: CORE SYNTHESIS
You are little motivated to put your natural talents into play.
You are probably not completely aware of your inner urges.
You're apt to drift along with only occasional displays of your
potential abilities. Sometimes, long after your peers have made
their mark, you will begin to express your motivations.
(When the Expression is higher than the Soul Urge by 7 or more
spaces, the ineffectiveness of the combination, with its marked
lack of motivation,will form a strong part of the subject's core.)
EXPRESSION HIGHER THAN THE SOUL URGE BY 3, 4
OR 5 SPACES (Abilities outweigh motivations.)
At times you have the incentive to display your talents. Mostly,
though, you show a good part of your capabilities without feeling a need to push yourself to use more of those natural abilities. Your development may proceed slowly because of the
small motivational emphasis, but, in general, you are satisfied
with your growth.
EXPRESSION HIGHER OR LOWER THAN THE SOUL
URGE BY 1 OR 2 SPACES (Effective balance of abilities and
motivations. )
You are aware of your capabilities and have the incentive to use
these talents to aid in your own development. You know how to
fit your capabilities in where you can shine. You are motivated
to display and develop your abilities with much advantage to
yourself '" .r ,>
EXPRESSION LOWER THAN THE SOUL URGE BY 3, 4 OR
5 SPACES (Motivations outweigh abilities.)
Your motivation sometimes seems to outrun your abilities. Although you have many ideas, your natural talents don't necessarily help to advance these ideas. Learn to be content with the
realization that it will take more time than you would prefer to
fulfill your inner desires.
EXPRESSION LOWER THAN THE SOUL URGE BY 6 OR
MORE SPACES (Motivations substantially outweigh abilities.)
You have many ideas that motivate you, but you often find that
your natural abilities aren't of much help in fulfilling your inner desires. Although some of your inner urges may be satisfied,
you have a tendency to overlook the realized satisfactions and
push forward where your needs have not been met. Learn to
accept your natural pace of development.
(When the Expression is lower than the Soul Urge by 7 or more
55
"
"~~i,~'}~~~~ir~~"
.,~'.~~~~" 1,"
~-
~'~ ;!
~"
"
:1'
"
~; ,',;
56
The steps in
core synthesis
.. (. ).
PART II: THE CORE
spaces, the ineffectiveness of the combination with its imbalance of motivation, will form a strong part of the subject's
core.)
Now that we've explored the principles, we're ready to proceed with a core synthesis. We're going to go slowly, step by
step, pointing out where the information we use is obtained.
This first synthesis is apt to appear somewhat fragmented and,
in part, a trifle repetitious. But remember that right now we're
primarily concentrating on the procedure. Later on, we'll polish the delineation, remove the repetitions and produce a cohesive whole.
THE 22 STEPS INVOLVED IN THE CORE SYNTHESIS
I. Derive the elements of the core.
2. Express the central focus of the Life Path.
3. Express the sub-focus of the Birthday.
4. Express the harmony or discord of the Life Life Path
Path/Birthday aspect. and
5. Determine the harmony or discord of the Birthday
Life Path/Expression and the Life Path/Soul as modiUrge aspects. fied by
6 . Express the characteristics of the Life Path. the other
7. Express the characteristics of the Birthday. elements.
8. Discuss the negative expression of the Life
Path.
9. Express the abilities of the Expression.
10. Express the harmony or discord of the Life
Path/Expression aspect.
II. Express the effectiveness of the Life Path/ Expression
Expression combination. as modi12. Determine the harmony or discord of the fied by
Expression/Life Path and the Expression/ the other
Soul Urge aspects. elements.
13. Express the positive attitudes of the Expression.
14. Express the negative attitudes of the Expression.
CHAPTER 7: CORE SYNTHESIS
15. Express the motives of the Soul Urge.
16. Express the harmony or discord of the Life
Path/Soul Urge aspect.
17. Express the effectiveness of the Life Path /
Soul Urge combination.
18. Express the harmony or discord of the Expression/Soul Urge aspect.
19. Express the effectiveness of the Expression/
Soul Urge combination.
20. Review the harmony or discord of the Life
Path/Soul Urge and Expression/Soul Urge
aspects.
21. Express the positive attitudes of the Soul
Urge.
22. Express the negative attitudes of the Soul
Urge.
Soul Urge
as modified by
the other
elements.
We're going to delineate a fictitious subject named Harlan
William Allen, born on May 12, 1941. Let's imagine Mr. Allen
has just walked in and asked us for a reading. We see that he's
tall, muscular, nicely dressed, with a handsome face, wavy
blonde hair and blue eyes. There's probably little else we can
determine about him just from a visual inspection. We'll turn
to the numbers-and see what we can find.
In the analysis that follows, we'll first list each step, followed
by a generalexphmation when- necessary. We will then indicate, in italics, precisely where the information for Harlan's
specific delineation is to be found, and then show that portion
of his synthesis derived by following the instructions. The actual delineation will be shown indented. When we complete
the 22 steps, we should re-read all the indented paragraphs
which make up Harlan's total core synthesis.
STEP 1
DERIVE THE ELEMENTS OF THE CORE.
From the calculation instructions in Chapters 3 through 6:
May 12, 1941
5 + 3 + 6 = 14 1 + 4 " 5 Life Path
12 1 + 2 = 3Birthday
Typical core
synthesis,
step by step
57
58
,,(' .,.
PART II: THE CORE
2 + (19) 1 + 6 = 9 Soul Urge
1 1 9 91 1 5
HARLAN WILL I AM ALLEN
STEP 2
819315
(27) 9 +
5 9 3 3 9 1 4 13 3 5 5
(34) 7 + (17) 8 24
2 + 4
6 Expression
EXPRESS THE CENTRAL FOCUS OF THE LIFE PATH.
The central focus remains the same irrespective of the other
core elements.
From CHART 2: THE LIFE PATH copy the central focus of the 5
Life Path shown in the upper horizontal division.
The central focus of your life is learning the exhilaration of the constructive use of freedom. Life is
full of exciting opportunities for you -there can
be much variety, change, unusual happenings, unusual people, unforeseen adventure. You will find
that you are capable at almost any task, that you
are talented in a number of directions. The world
is your oyster-there are exciting things to do at
every turn-and that undoubtedly is the difficulty.
You must learn how to pick and choose, how to
seek experiences which will be of benefit, how to
discard those activities that are not working, how
to profit from every experience. You must learn
not to waste your time or scatter your forces, not
to get lost in purely physical delights-food, sex,
drink or drugs. It can be sheer delight to be a roiling stone, but the frustration of moving from place
to place, from person to person, from opportunity
to opportunity may eventually overwhelm the
delight.
STEP 3
EXPRESS THE SUB-FOCUS OF THE BIRTHDAY.
The Birthday represents only twenty percent of the Life Path.
Express the relative strengths of the elements by the relative
amount of space devoted to them. The Birthday sub-focus,
CHAPTER 7: CORE SYNTHESIS
then, should be only about one-fifth as long as the Life Path
focus. In this step, express the keywords of the sub-focus, possibly with some slight elaboration.
From CHART 5: THE BIRTHDAY use the keywords for the 3 Birthday. To elaborate on these keywords, read the central focus of
the 3 Life Path found in Chart 2. These energies are operating,
but in a much reduced manner, since the energies are being applied here to the Birthday rather than the Life Path itself.
While you're learning how to- use freedom, learn
the joy of expressing yourself. Give of yourself,
openly, warmly, with delight. Learn, too, to express
yourself, using your imagination, your artistic abilities, but especially, your ability with words.
STEP 4
EXPRESS THE HARMONY OR DISCORD OF THE LIFE
PATHIBIRTHDAY ASPECT.
From CHART 6: THE ASPECTS read the 3· 5 aspect-usually harmonious. The 3·5 aspect, as written, discusses the enhancement
of the 3 energy by the 5 energy. Since the 5 Life Path is, in our
example, being modified by the 3 Birthday, rewrite the aspect
to express the enhancement of the 5 energy by the 3 energy.
Your ability to give of yourself in social situations
as well as with creative expression-most likely
with words-Will helpjn working toward an awareness of the' constructive use of freedom.
STEP 5
DETERMINE THE HARMONY OR DISCORD OF THE
LIFE PATH/EXPRESSION AND THE LIFE PATH/SOUL
URGE ASPECTS.
Although we have not yet delineated the Expression and the
Soul Urge, we must, at this point, determine the aspects
relative to the Life Path because that harmony or discord will
modify the Life Path characteristics and negative expression expressed in Steps 6 and 7.
From CHART 6: THE ASPECTS:
The 5 Life Pathl6 Expression is usually discordant. The strong
personal desire of the 5 for freedom conflicts with the potential
of the 6 for responsibility and concern for others.
The 5 Life Pathl9 Soul' Urge is usually discordant. The strong
personal desire of the 5 for freedom conflicts with the potential
of the 9 for giving to others.
59
').
60 PART II: THE CORE
From CHART 3: THE EXPRESSION read the 6 Expression and from
CHART 4: THE SOUL URGE read the 9 Soul Urge to become familiar with the reading for these elements.
In this example, the 5 Life Path energies (along with the Birthday energies) represent fifty percent of the core and are opposed
by the combined 6 Expression and 9 Soul Urge, representing
. the other fifty percent of the core. The 6 and 9 are, in some
ways, similar energies. The 6 keywords of balance, responsibility and love, may be thought of as expressed on a higher level
in the 9 keywords of selflessness and humanitarianism. InHarlan, the giving qualities of the 6 and 9 will conflict with the
carefree, self-centered traits of the 5, but will, at the same
time, tend to alleviate the excesses of the 5 and produce a more
workable blending than the unmodified 5.
STEP 6
EXPRESS THE CHARACTERISTICS OF THE LIFE PATH.
Modify the Life Path characteristics based on the aspects found
in Step 5.
From CHART 2: THE LIFE PATH list the characteristics of the 5
Life Path from the second horizontal division. Study each trait
to determine if it is affected by the discord with the 6 Expression and 9 Soul Urge. Modify the characteristic to express this
effect.
You are probably versatile and active and can do
.r > almost anything with superior talent. Although
you are interested in the new, different or progressive, you usually proceed here with awareness of
your responsibilities and concern for others.
The 5· 6 and 5· 9 aspects tone down the 5 Life Path desire to
jump into new things.
You are apt to be clever, with an inborn ability to
accomplish what you want. You may be a quick
thinker with a good ability to analyze, although
that ability isn't always used to further your best
interests.
This trait is expressed as indicated on Chart 2. The 5·6 and 5·9
aspects don't add or subtract.
Although you sometimes have feelings of restlessness, impatience and the desire to try something
new, these feelings are tempered by your desire
for balance in your life and those around you as
well as your concern for giving to others.
CHAPTER 7: CORE SYNTHESIS
The 5·6 and 5·9 aspects strongly affect the basic 5 Life Path
characteristic. The 5 trait still exists, but with substantial modification.
Although you love change and enjoy travel and
adventure, you are also capable of routine tasks
demanded by your sense of responsibility. At
times, these traits may produce feelings of conflict.
This trait, like the last, is strongly modified. The balancing effect of the aspects, as well as the potential conflict, are both
expressed.
You are probably a delightful companion and can
inspire and delight with your enthusiasm. You may
occasionally have to temper your sudden impulses
to change direction.
The 6 and 9 tone down the erratic nature of the 5.
You are enthusiastic. You tackle each new experience with renewed enthusiasm.
This trait is expressed as indicated on Chart 2. The 6 and 9 do
not add or subtract.
You tend to express eternal youth. The excitement
of I ife keeps you young.
This trait is expressed as indicated on Chart 2. The 6 and 9 do ... '-" .. (', .'" .
not add or substract.
STEP 7'
EXPRESS THE CHARACTERISTICS OF THE BIRTHDAY.
Read the characteristics of the Birthday in CHART 5: THE BIRTHDAY. Summarize these traits in the delineation. The relative
strength would be expressed by having the Birthday traits
about one-fifth as long as the Life Path traits. Express the harmony or discord of the Life Path/Birthday aspect.
From CHART 5: THE BIRTHDAY summarize the characteristics of
the 12 Birthday. Remember, from Step 4, that the 5 Life Pathl3
Birthday is usually harmonious. Modify the traits as required.
You are probably good with words. You work well,
using your original strongly creative approach.
You usually express the joy of living. People are
likely to see you as cheerful, friendly and sociable,
a good conversationalist, full of energy. You're
61 ~fI~.'t~~~~;?f~~~~~'~:{ j.}
-;
~'%~ "
~ .~
"
:;
- _. ~~---'
62
'- .. (' ).
PART II: THE CORE
likely to be affectionate, loving and sensitive. Your
strong feelings may cause occasional rapid ups
and downs. You usually have many interests, so
you're likely to scatter your energy.
The 5·3 aspect would stress strong creativity, noted in the second sentence. The 5 has a self-centered side, so that the "very
affectionate, loving" in Chart 5 is changed to "affectionate,
loving. "
STEP 8
DISCUSS THE NEGATIVE EXPRESSION OF THE LIFE
PATH.
The negative expression is determined, to a strong extent, by
the free will and the environment, but it is also related to the
aspects the Life Path makes with the Expression and the Soul
Urge. It's occasionally possible, just from the numbers,to determine if a person will tend to express negatively (particularly
in the special cases discussed in Chapter 9). It is important,
however, to warn the subject of the potential problems inherent in the negative expression.
From CHART 2: THE LIFE PATH read the negative expression of
the 5 Life Path in the third horizontal division. If this subiect
expresses negatively at all, he will tend to express the second
,negative" expression, the denial of the lesson, because of the
strength of the 6 and 9 discord. There is still the possibility of
the first negative expression, the exaggeration of the lesson, so
it, too, must be mentioned.
When you are hesitant about using your freedom,
it may seem easier to retreat into a safe and stable
situation. When you do this, the changes and uncertainty will still be there, but you will probably
have difficulty dealing with them.
There's a chance that you'll be so exhilarated with
the opportunities before you, that you'll jump
from thing to thing with maddening speed, lost in
overindulgence or erratic behavior. This is apt to
bring much frustration.
These negative expressions are unproductive. They
should be avoided in order to proceed constructively with your development.
CHAPTER 7: CORE SYNTHESIS
STEP 9
EXPRESS THE ABILITIES OF THE EXPRESSION.
The abilities remain the same irrespective of the other core
elements.
From CHART 3: THE EXPRESSION copy the abilities of the 6 Expression shown in the upper horizontal division.
You are probably a responsible, helpful and conscientious person. You have the ability to rectify
and balance inharmonious situations and you
would be available to give help and comfort to
those in need. You would work well where the care
of the old, young or sick is involved. You probably
show concern for the betterment of the community. In addition, you are apt to possess creative and
artistic talents.
Although Harlan possesses these potential abilities, it's probable
that all aren't being used. The delineation should indicate these
possibilities.
It's possible that you're not using or developing all
of these capabilities at this time. Some of your talents may have been used in the earlier part of your
life and some may still be latent. Be aware of your
capabilities, so that you can make use of them at
appropri·ate tfmes. -
STEP 10
EXPRESS THE HARMONY OR DISCORD OF THE LIFE
PATH/EXPRESSION ASPECT.
From CHART 6: THE ASPECTS:
The 5 Life Path/6 Expression is usually discordant. The strong
personal desire of the 5 for freedom conflicts with the potential
of the 6 for responsibility and concern for others.
The Life Path represents about half the core while the Expression represents about a third. The 5 Life Path will govern the
5·6 aspect, but Harlan will have to deal with the conflicting
energies of the 6 Expression.
You are probably exhilarated by all the exciting
opportunities and adventures so often present in
your life. It m·ay be difficult, at times, to give up
this excitement to satisfy your responsibilities.
~63 S•~~~~f~'.11~',')
,~8"
~~(;,;\
':i"
.; .,
.!
,~ri
)I. ~.,
~. ~ Y:
;:
"
~.
:;
,>
~~
.,
",
,'-'
?:.. •
64 PART II: THE CORE
There may even be times when you want to shirk
these responsibilities or give them up altogether to
enjoy the excitement of freedom.
Ignoring your responsibilities will probably not be
very satisfying for you. You have to find some way
to satisfy the adventurous side of your nature and,
at the same time, enjoy the pleasures you receive
when yOI) express your responsible, conscientious
side. You may find that an out-of-the-ordinary job
may be helpful in balancing the quiet stability you
may desire in a close family. Or, you might plan
exciting trips or follow some unusual avocations
to offset the solid, respectable job which gives you
satisfaction.
STEP 11
EXPRESS THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THE LIFE PATH/EXPRESSION COMBINATION.
Copy the effectiveness from the appropriate paragraph in the
Table of Effectiveness in this chapter.
Harlan has a 6 Expression and a 5 Life Path; 6 - 5 = 1 space.
Copy the paragraph describing the Life Path higher or lower
than the Expression by 1 or 2 spaces.
You have the potential to take advantage of the
opportunities presented with relative ease, to
make the most of the experiences which come
your way. Your natural abilities will probably find
ample field for expression. The environment will
allow your talents to be displayed and appreciated. As your capabilities find the opportunities
to expand to meet their potential, your development will progress in a manner which may bring
you much satisfaction.
STEP 12
DETERMINE THE HARMONY OR DISCORD OF THE EXPRESSION/LIFE PATH AND THE EXPRESSION/SOUL
URGE ASPECTS.
The harmony or discord of the aspect~ relative to the Expressi(;m will modify the Expression positi~e attitudes and negative
attitudes expressed in Steps 13 and 14.
;~
CHAPTER 7: CORE SYNTHESIS
From CHART 6: THE ASPECTS:
As we've expressed in Step 10, the 6 Expression/5 Life Path is
usually discordant. The strong personal desire of the 5 for freedom conflicts with the potential of the 6 for responsibility and
concern for others.
The 6 Expression/9 Soul Urge is usually harmonious. The
potential of the 6 for responsibility and concern for others is
enhanced by the potential of the 9 for. giving to others. The
potential for creative self-expression of both the 6 and 9 enhances the expressive capabilities.
We have, to this point, explored the Life Path and the abilities
of the Expression. From CHART 5: THE SOUL URGE read the 9 Soul
Urge. In this example, the 6 Expression, representing thirty
percent of the core, is opposed by the 5 Life Path (with the
Birthday), representing fifty percent of the core, and enhanced
by the Soul Urge, representing twenty percent of the core. In
Harlan, the balance and responsibility of the 6 will be in conflict with the free, adventurous spirit of the 5. At the same
time, the balance, responsibility and love of the 6 will be
enhanced by the selfless, humanitarian outlook of the 9, and
the creative self-expression of the 6· 9 provides a stronger potential than the creativity of the 6 by itself.
STEP 13
EXPRESS THEe ,POSITIVE "ATTITUDES OF THE EXPRESSION.
Modify the positive attitudes of the Expression based on the
aspects found in Step 12.
From CHART 3: THE EXPRESSION list the positive attitudes of the 6
Expression from the middle horizontal division. Study each
trait to determine if it is affected by the discord with the 5 Life
Path or the harmony with the 9 Soul Urge.
When you are involved closely with people, you
are probably most loving, friendly and appreciative of others, as well as very sympathetic, kind,
generous and understanding. There may be times,
though, when you prefer not to be involved at all.
The 6· 5 discord is expressed by the possibility of sometimes being involved and sometimes not. The 6· 9 harmony enhances the
attitude expressed, and. accounts for the «most loving, friendly,
etc." and "very sympathetic, kind, etc."
65
~;~ap8~~~;')~~~~ib~ ";,
,-
,
,~ :,'
.,
".1
~. ." ?;, :1
--
c·
,-
~.:::. "-
.~
~
66 PART II: THE CORE
Although you may well be involved in domestic
activities, you may feel the pressures of these
responsibilities conflicting with your own need for
individuality. The resolution of this conflict (or the
lack of resolution) will determine how good a husband and parent you are.
The 6·5 discord substantially affects this attitude. The 6·9 harmony effect is not specifically mentioned. Its effect would be
present as noted in the previous attitude.
You are probably extremely open and honest with
others.
The 6 openness and honesty is reinforced by the similar 9. The
free-spirited 5 tends to be open and honest also, although its
openness and honesty may be self-centered and not necessarily
work to forward its best interests.
STEP 14
EXPRESS THE NEGATIVE ATTITUDES OF THE EXPRESSION.
Modify the negative attitudes of the Expression based on the
aspects found in Step 12.
From CHART 3: THE EXPRESSION list the negative attitudes of the
6 Expression from the bottom horizontal division. Study each
trait to see if it is affected by the discord with the 5 Life Path or
the harmony with the 9 Soul Urge.
There is the possibility that you may be too exacting of yourself and willing to sacrifice yourself (or
your family) for the welfare of others, but your
strong individual needs will probably mitigate this
attitude.
The 6·5 discord substantially modifies this characteristic.
At times, you may have substantial difficulty distinguishing helping from interfering.
The 6· 9 harmony intensifies this trait.
Although you may express worry and anxiety, you
are apt to try and cover these feelings and look at
the bright side instead.
T~e free spirit of the 5 resists the negativity of the 6 and 9.
The expression of your individual needs will probably keep you from becoming a drudge because
i
I
I
CHAPTER 7: COllE SYNTH ESIS 67
of excessive involvement with your responsibilities.
The 6·5 discord strongly modifies this attitude.
STEP 15
EXPRESS THE MOTIVES OF THE SOUL URGE.
The motives remain the same irrespective of the other core
elements.
From CHART 4: SOUL URGE copy the motives of the 9 Soul Urge
shown in the upper horizontal division.
Your inner nature wants to give of itself to others,
usually in a humanitarian or philanthropic manner. You probably want to give friendship, affection, love. You may want to give your knowledge
and experience. You may also want to share with
others your artistic or creative talents. It's possible
that these talents are of considerable magnitude.
STEP 16
EXPRESS THE HARMONY OR DISCORD OF THE LIFE
PATH/SOUL URGE ASPECT.
From CHART 6: ASPECTS:
The 5 Life Pathl9 Soul Urge is usually discordant. The strong
personal desire oj the 5 for freedom conflicts with the potential
of the 9 for giving to others.
The Life Path represents about half the core while the Soul
Urge represents only a fifth. The 5 Life Path will govern the
aspect, but Harlan will have to deal with the conflicting
energies of the 9 Soul Urge.
Although your inner nature feels the need to give
to others, you may often feel torn between this
need and your stronger need to explore the exhilarating opportunities that present themselves for
your personal development. You must learn to
balance these opposing energies to avoid the frustration of missing an adventure or the sadness of
not being available to those in need of your help.
STEP 17
EXPRESS THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THE LIFE PATH/
SOUL URGE COMBINATION.
68 PART Il: THE CORE
Copy the effectiveness from the appropriate paragraph in this
chapter.
The subject has a 9 Soul Urge and a 5 Life Path. 9 - 5 = 4
spaces. Copy the paragraph describing the Life Path lower than
the Soul Urge by 3, 4 or 5 spaces.
Although you are able to recognize your opportunities, you find somewhat fewer possibilities
than you would like to advance your inner development. The experiences at hand, while not necessarily presenting opportunities to fulfill your inner
needs, are apt to act as a secondary motivating
force. Make the most of these experiences. Learn
to accept the natural pace of your development.
STEP 18
EXPRESS THE HARMONY OR DISCORD OF THE EXPRESSION/SOUL URGE ASPECT.
From CHART 6: ASPECTS:
The 6 Expressionl9 Soul Urge is usually harmonious. The potential of the 6 for responsibility and concern for others is
enhanced by the potential of the 9 for giving to others. The
potential for creative self-expression of both the 6 and 9
enhances the expressive capabilities.
The Expression represents about one-third the core while the
Soul Urge represents only one-fifth. The 6 Expression will
govern the aspect, but will be aided by the harmonious energies
of the 9 Soul Urge.
Your natural talent at being helpful and able to
balance inharmonious situations will be substantially aided by your inner need to give to others,
often without thought of yourself. You may be
much concerned with the betterment of the community and capable of assisting in that betterment.
You are apt to be strongly motivated to develop
your creative expressive talents.
STEP 19
EXPRESS THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THE· EXPRESSION/SOUL URGE COMBINATION.
Copy the effectiveness from the appropriate paragraph in this .
chapter.
CHAPTER 7: CORE SYNTHESIS
The subject has a 9 Soul Urge and a 6 Expression. 9 - 6 3
spaces. Copy the paragraph describing the Expression lower
than the Soul Urge by 3, 4 or 5 spaces.
Your motivation sometimes seems to outrun your
abilities. Although you have many ideas, your
natural talents don't necessarily help to advance
these ideas. Learn to be content with the real ization that it will take more time than you would
prefer to fulfill your inner desires.
STEP 20
REVIEW THE HARMONY OR DISCORD OF THE LIFE
PATH/SOUL URGE AND EXPRESSION/SOUL URGE
ASPECTS.
The harmony or discord of the aspects relative to the Soul Urge
will modify the Soul Urge positive attitudes and negative attitudes expressed in Steps 21 and 22.
Review the usually discordant 5 Life Pathl9 Soul Urge aspect
discussed in Step 16. Review the usually harmonious 9 Soul
Urge/6 Expression aspect discussed in Step 18.
For Harlan, the 9 Soul Urge, representing twenty percent of
the core is enhanced by the 6 Expression, representing thirty
percent of the core, and opposed by the 5 Life Path (with the
Birthday), representing fifty percent of the core. The selfless
humanitarian outlook,of the 9 will be bolstered by the balance,
responsibility arid rove of the 6. The 6 and 9 will also provide a
strong potential jor creative self-expression. At the same time,
the potential of the 9 for giving to others will meet strong resistance from the personal desire of the 5 for freedom. Since the 5
has so much strength relative to the 9, the conflicts between the
5 and 9 will be more strongly influenced by the 5 than the 9.
STEP 21
EXPRESS THE POSITIVE ATTITUDES OF THE SOUL
URGE.
Modify the positive attitudes of the Soul Urge based on the
aspects discussed in Step 20.
From CHART 4: THE SOUL URGE list the positive attitudes of the 9
Soul Urge from the middle horizontal division. Study each trait
to determine if it is affected by the discord with the 5 Life Path
or the harmony with t~e 6 Expression.
When you are concerned about others, you are
very sympathetic, generous and kind. At these
69 !~ e
I
~ :~
~
~ [i
.~
~
~ ~
~
~
~ ~
~}
:1
J,~
"
:~
~ ~,
",'.
~, :~ ..
t
~~
':
.. ~
70
.. (' .).
PART II: THE CORE
times, your sensitive nature expresses much love,
compassion and tolerance. There may be times,
though, when you prefer not to be involved at all.
The 9·5 discord is expressed by the possibility oj sometimes being involved and sometimes not. The 9·6 harmony enhances the
attitude expressed, and accounts for the "very sympathetic,
etc., " and the "much love, etc."
You possess a deep, intuitive understanding of life,
innate wisdom, good intuition and a broad point
of view.
These traits are expressed as indicated in Chart 4. The 5 and g
do not add or subtract.
You are capable, at times, of expressing high ideals
and an inspirational approach. You are capable of
being self-sacrificing, but this trait is apt to conflict with your love of freedom.
The 9·5 discord indicates the conflict between self-sacrifice and
freedom.
You can give freely without being concerned
about any return, although your desire to give may
. cause conflicts with your self-centered needs.
The 9·5 discord indicates the conflict between giving and selfcentered needs .
STEP 22
EXPRESS THE NEGATIVE ATTITUDES OF THE SOUL
URGE.
Modify the negative attitudes of the Soul Urge based on the
aspects discussed in Step 20.
From CHART 4: SOUL URGE list the negative attitudes of the g
Soul Urge from the bottom horizontal division. Study each trait
to determine if it is affected by the discord with the 5 Life Path
or the harmony with the 6 Expression.
You may be far too sensitive, extremely emotional
with your emotions expressed very strongly.
The 9·6 harmony intensifies the sensitivity and the emotions.
You probably suffer from the conflict between
your high spiritual aims and your need for freedom
and personal expansion.
CHAPTER 7: CORE SYNTHESIS
The 9·5 discord intensifie,s the conflict.
At times, you probably resent the necessity of giving. At times, when your giving conflicts with your
own needs, you may not give, but you'll be dissatisfied anyway.
The 9·5 discord intensifies the problem.
Sometimes you're disappointed in the lack of perfection in yourself and others ..
The trait is expressed as indicated on Chart 5. The 5 and 6 do
not add or subtract.
Your tendency to be quite moody and critical at
times is usually offset by your freedom-loving
delight.
The 9·6 harmony may intensify the moodiness, but the 9·5
discord tends to balance the negativity.
When we started the core synthesis we knew only Harlan's
birthname and birthdate. Amazingly enough, we now have a
reasonably detailed idea of his character. When we started our
discussion of the core, we compared it to a slightly fuzzy blackand-white reproduction of a full color portrait. We now have
that fuzzy reproduction.
A summary 9fJh~ core synthesis might read like this:
Harlan William Allen, born May 12,1941, is an active, versatile,· freedom-loving person with much
excitement and adventure in his life, enhanced by
his expression of the joy of living. He has the capability of being responsible, loving and giving. He
must learn to balance the somewhat self-centered
exhilaration he finds in freedom with his inner
need to give much to others in the way of friendship, love and affection. He has the potential for
artistic or creative endeavor.
But just how accurate is the picture? There is, of course, no
way to check on the fictitious Harlan, but, from my experience,
I'd expect we'd come pretty close. B!lt don't just take my word
for it. Follow the 22 steps and delineate your own core synthesis. Do a few others-your parents, spouse, children, close
friends. IF THERE'S A.MASTER NUMBER OR REPEATED
Summary
of the
core
synthesis·
71
72 PART II: THE CORE
NUMBERS AMONG THE CORE ELEMENTS, SET THAT
READING ASIDE UNTIL YOU'VE READ THE NEXT
CHAPTERS. I expect you'll be as astonished as I was when I
began to be aware of the mysterious power of numbers.
If you've carefully followed Harlan's core synthesis and if
you do a few delineations of your own, you'll be developing
your own numerology skills. The synthesis, as outlined, certainly requires patience in the· enfolding. The 22 steps are
specifically designed to make you aware of the manner in
which the various energies are blended. As you grow more
familiar with the numbers and the idea of synthesis, the delineation process will become second-nature. When we discuss advanced reading, you'll see how we can simplify the 22 steps and
produce even better readings.
Let's go back now and examine some assumptions underlying
the basic principles of delineation.
Potentials IN A CHARACTER DELINEATION, WE ARE DEALING
ONLY WITH POTENTIALS. We have no way of knowing
exactly how an individual will use these potentials.
In a core reading, there are 11 different possible Life Paths,
11 different possible Expressions, 11 different possible Soul
Urges and 31 different possible Birthdays. There are, then, over
.f ,40,000 different cores possible (11 x 11 x 11 x 31 = 41,261).
Somewhat over 4 billion people are living in the world at this
time. If we assume that the different cores are spread around
more or less evenly, there are about 100,000 people with the
same core .
. By the time we take all the modifiers (Part III) into account,
we'll have well over 4 billion possible combinations, confirming
our feeling of the uniqueness of each individual. But, let's look
only at the core-the essence, as it were. Surely, we're not saying that those 100,000 people with the same core are similar.
We are saying that those 100,000 people have the same potentials. That is a far different prospect.
Potential, by the dictionary definition, means,
L possible as opposed to actual;
2. capable of coming into being or action.
A potential, by its very nature, is not a fixed or finite characteristic. It's in constant flux, modifying the free will and environment and being, in turn, modified by them. The potential
CHAPTER 7: CORE"SYNTHESIS
is a moving force, shifting direction, expressing, at different
times, a positive, negative or neutral side.
Let's look more closely at a few of the 100,000 people who
share one core. Remember that Harlan William Allen, our fictitious subject, had a 5 Life Path, a 6 Expression, a 9 Soul Urge
and a 3 Birthday. Now, coincidentally (actually, not so coincidentally-I really planned it all along) Abraham Lincoln was
born on February 12, 1809, which gives him the same core as
Harlan. Though we have no idea what the fictitious Harlan
might do with his potentials, we can easily check on Honest
Abe. You might want to re-read Harlan's delineation now that
you know it also represents Lincoln. The core synthesis is a
good deSCription of our sixteenth President's potentials.
Lincoln's great achievement was the freedom he brought to
the slaves (5: freedom, 6: concern for betterment of community, 9: humanitarian). In his early life he had many jobs-he
built and navigated a steamboat down the Mississippi, worked
in a store, managed a mill, spent some time as a surveyor as
well as a village postmaster, served in the Black Hawk War (5:
rolling stone). He had a troubled courtship with Mary Todd,
with many breaks and reconciliations (5·6 conflict). He was an
extraordinary stump speaker, went on to give some of the finest
speeches in American history (3: verbal ability, 6·9 creative
potential). He had a reputation for uncommon sociability (6:
caring, 3: social).
The great naturalist, Charles Darwin, was born Charles
Robert Darwin on February 12, 1809, the same day as Lincoln.
Darwin has the same core as Lincoln . . ,. '- .. (' \,). .
Darwin's reputation as a great scientist and writer rests particularly on his Origin oj the Species and Descent oj Man,
books which are monuments not only in biology but also in
English literature (5: constructive expansion of knowledge, 6·9:
creative potential, 3: writing ability). His life was dramatically
changed, his life course set by his five-year round-the-world
cruise as naturalist on the Beagle (an ultimate expression of the
5 freedom and opportunity). Although his scientific writing
made him famous, he enjoyed the excitement of his experimental work far more than the writing (5: exciting opportunities, 3:
writing ability). He was a devoted husband and father, a born
teacher, was sympathetic, genial, courteous and kind, with a
quiet naturalness arising from a complete absence of pretension
(all expressions of 6 qualities enhanced by the 9 energy).
Both Lincoln and Darwin contributed to the world by a
superb use of their potentials. But, as you can see, their lives
were extremely dissimilar. There are other factors besides the
potentials which aCC01:mt for a person's development. We'll
discuss them shortly.
/74
Delineation
for the entire
life or
any specific
time period
in the life
PART II: THE CORE
A CHARACTER DELINEATION IS A READING FOR
THE ENTIRE LIFE OR FOR ANY SPECIFIC TIME PERIOD IN THE LIFE. The potentials in a reading must be expressed in broad enough terms so they can, indeed, make sense.
for the entire span of years from birth to death. The subject,
the person receiving the reading, must be able to easily relate
the broad description of the potential to his particular place
along the continuum of that potential at the time he receives
the reading.
Let's study this point in more detail. An old friend of minelet's call her Emily-with a Life Path of 1, would be a good
subject. Let's look at her life in relation to her Life Path potentials-individuation, independence and attainment.
Emily grew up as the youngest child in a large family and enjoyed much comfort and support. When she married in her
mid-twenties, she was content with her passive housewife's
role. When .her husband was seriously injured in an industrial
accident, Emily was forced to take a full-time job to support
him and their three young children. For over ten years, until
her husband's early death, Emily was breadwinner, nurse,
housewife and mother. Although she was indeed the head of
the household, she felt totally dependent for love and support
on those who were, in actuality, dependent on her.
After her eldest children had married, Emily centered her
needs on her youngest boy. The child was uncomfortable with
her efforts to keep him in a subordinate role. As soori as he was
old enough, he found employment in a distant city. Despite a
close relation with a nearby brother and sister, Emily felt alone
.. and defeated. Although she had friends and visited her children
and grandchildren frequently, she felt that no one needed her.
. Now in her early sixties, Emily has at last accepted the unavailability of someone on whom she can lean. She has learned
to make decisions capably, to spend her time enjoyably with
friends, family and activities. She has begun to learn the meaning of independence.
Emily's life expresses her use of her potentials. Her delineation would reflect the changes in her life as she aged. The
delineation would be expressed so that it is meaningful to Emily
and points the way to future development no matter how old
she is when she receives the reading.
Read the central focus and the commentary of the 1 Life
Path in Chart 2. This might serve as a brief, but complete,
reading which satisfies the above points. It encompasses
Emily's lack of individuation in childhood, her dependence in
young adulthood, her independent actions and subservient feeljngs when her husband was injured, her reliance on her young
son when the other children married, her inability to accept be-
CHAPTER 7: CORE SYNTHESIS
ing independent when her youngest child left, the eventual
positive experience of independence, even her potential for
attainment in the years to come.
A CHARACTER DELINEATION INDICATES THE
POTENTIALS-ABOUT A THIRD OF THE INFORMATION DESCRIBING A PERSON. THE FREE WILL AND
ENVIRONMENT - INFORMATION DESCRIBING THE
OTHER TWO-THIRDS-ARE NOT CONTAINED IN THE
DELINEATION.
Look at Emily again. Her environment-the large family
into which she was born, her husband's work and accident-were major factors in her life. Her free will was responsible, in her particular case, for her limited progress. Her role
as passive wife, her years as head of her family without any
feelings of independence, her dependence on her young son,
her ultimate beginning understanding of her life lesson were all
acts of her will which determined the directions of her life. If
she had been a less subservient wife, if she had chosen to lead
her family as an independent woman might, if she had not
centered her needs on her son, her life would have taken significantly different directions.
Some people are disappointed that all the information isn't
available in a reading. We have to recognize that the universe
is structured by the potentials, but the potentials are operating
within a fieldQf f;re~dom.
As you proceed with numerology, you may be amazed at
how much you do learn about people, using only the potentials.
You'll begin to understand subtleties which you didn't even see
before, become aware of motivations previously hidden, gain
insights which you cannot gain in any other way. Many subjects will provide part of the missing two-thirds. Most enjoy filling . in at least portions -of the information for your understanding.
Potentials,
free will,
environment
THE CHARACTER DELINEATION, LIKE THE LIFE IT Ambiguity in
REPRESENTS, IS COMPOSED OF POTENTIALS WHICH delineations
ARE SOMETIMES HARMONIOUS, SOMETIMES DISCORDANT, SOMETIMES CONFLICTING, OFTEN AMBIGUOUS OR INCONSISTENT. The task of the numerologist
is to express, as clearly as possible, exactly what is present in a
manner which will be of most use to the person receiving the
reading. It is important to express conflicts, ambiguities or in-
~ 75 ~ ?~ ~j s~ ~1 ~ ~ F-
~ ~ ~! ~ ~ ~ .~ t,!
.; ~ :'(
.,
q~ ~, '" ,~ ~ 'r~ ~ -,
I' ~ ~ "~i
~ ;
<;'.'
.~ ,
,
-,-
76
Express
the potentials
positively
PART II: THE CORE
consistencies just as the numbers describe them, so that the subject will understand the forces within. Don't attempt to tidy up
a reading by making all the pieces fit together neatly and
consistently. Although this may satisfy a desire for order, it
does the subject a disservice by distorting the information he
l"eceives.
Particularly with your first readings, you're apt to be concerned because the parts of a delineation may feel as if they
don't go together. I've· often prefaced parts of a delineation
with some remark like: "I don't understand how you can be
----- and at the same time, but that's what
the numbers say." You'll find that the subject will almost invariably understand the forces and their relation, and usually be
happy to explain it to you.
ALWAYS EXPRESS THE DELINEATION IN THE MOST
POSITIVE MANNER POSSIBLE. Don't give a reading from a
negative point of view. It may fix a subject's mind with the difficulties of his life and make it harder for him to resolve
whatever discords or conflicts are present. (If you were dealing,
in an extreme case, with a chart replete with conflicts, you
would express the least difficult conflict as the most har-
. monious force available, the second least difficult conflict as
the next most harmonious force, and so forth.)
Suppose, for instance, a chart shows a person who prefers to
spend much of. his time alone, has difficulty communicating
with others and reticence in expressing emotions. If you said
"Marriage is not recommended because you seem to have problems getting along with others," you would be stating the information in a damaging way. It would be better to express the
information positively: "Marriage will require you to work at
increasing your skills in getting along with others."
You must stay constantly alert to the powerful forces with
which you are dealing. Handle with carellI
CHAPTER 8: CORE WITH MASTER NUMBERS
CHAPTER 8
CORE SYNTHESIS WITH
. MASTER NUMBER ELEMENTS
The numbers 11 and 22 are master numbers. They represent
the potential for heightened levels of awareness and understanding and the possibility of achievements of great significance. They are always accompanied by substantial charges of
nervous tension. This combination of potential power and nervous tension does not make for easy going. The high level of
energy can be ~xtfe:{Ilely taxing.-
It isn't possible to operate at the high level of the master
number all the time. For many people, it's hardly possible to
ever work at that level. Now, since 2 is the reduced form of 11
(1 + 1 = 2), the 11 energy devoted to illumination can be interpreted as a higher form of the 2 energy dedicated to relation
and cooperation, with illumination and the dissemination of
the products of the illumination implying working with others
on a spiritual rather than a mundane level. Similarly, the 22
energy related to becoming a master builder can be understood
as the higher level of the energy given to order and service of
the 4, the reduced form of 22 (2 + 2 = 4). With an 11 element, you can choose to operate with the higher 11 energy or
the reduced 2 energy, just as with the 22, you can use either the
22 or the 4 energy. I always write!l as 11/2 and 22 as 22/4 to
indicate the choice conferred only by the master numbers. (If
the core element is 2 or 4, 2 or 4 energy alone is available and
cannot be raised to 11 or 22.)
The choice we're taIling about is not always a conscious one.
A child with a master number element is always operating on
77
78
,_ ,.f'.).
Birthday
with master
number
Life Path,
Expression or
Soul Urge
with master
number
PART II: THE CORE
the reduced level. Although the child would have some occasional glimpses of higher awarenesses, he would probably be
more aware of the tensions he feels. Often, the tension and the
latent power of the master number will be so difficult to live
with that the child, 0r even the young adult, will express the
reduced element with negativity. The 22 youngster is apt to feel
frustrated by his limitations, by his rigid approach, by his concentration on details to the exclusion of the bigger picture. Instead of being able to use the 22 power, the youngster is expressing an overbalance of the 4 energy. The youngster with an
11 element often expresses negatively by denying the 2 energy.
Instead of being sensitive, cooperative, considerate, the subject
may be too sensitive, shy, uncertain, sometimes apathetic or indifferent.
As a person grows older, the power and awarenesses of the
master number are more readily understood and used. Some
mature adults may operate on the master level a good deal of
the time, use the reduced level only occasionally. Many adults
have difficulty with the power. They prefer to operate on the
reduced level most of the time. ,Some adults, only somewhat in
touch with their latent powers, prefer to stay almost exclusively
on the mundane level.
The master number energy is there to be used if and when a
person is ready. The master number tension is present whether
or not the power is used. A subject with an 11 or 22 element
reminds me of a moon rocket on tlie launching pad-enormous
energy to be used-and the possibility of a premature fizzling
out.
If the Birthday is a master number, the delineation proceeds
in the same manner as shown in Chapter 7. The 2 energy of the
11/2 Birthday and the 4 energy of the 22/4 Birthday are already
included in the description on CHART 5: THE BIRTHDAY, along
with an emphasis on nervous tension.
When the master number appears in the Life Path, Expression or Soul Urge, the same delineation steps are followed as in
Chapter 7, but the master number energies must be read on the
higher level of 11 or 22 and the lower level of 2 or 4. The harmony/discord and the effectiveness comparisons must be
related to 11 and 2-or 22 and 4.
Look at CHART 6: THE ASPECTS. The aspect 1·22 is usually discordant but 1·4 is usually harmonious. The higher level aspect
'~.'
:~
CHAPTER 8: CORE WITH MASTER NUMBERS
is often at odds with the lower level aspect. The effectiveness is
apt to vary, too. While 2·3 is an effective combination, 11·3 is
relatively ineffective. The subject will feel a degree of tension
because of these different relations of the high and low level
energies with the other elements. You can imagine the difficulties when you're operating with two related energies, both an
integral part of you, with one producing harmony and effectiveness, while the other tends to conflict and ineffectiveness.
Following is a partial core synthesis for Grandma Moses, the
legendary artist. The step-by-step delineation that follows (the
individual steps are similar to those in Chapter 7) presents the
special way a reading is handled if the Life Path, Expression or
Soul Urge is a master number. In this example, Grandma
Moses has a master number Life Path. But a similar method
would be used if the Expression or Soul Urge was the master
number.
In the analysis that follows, we'll proceed as we did in
Chapter 7. We'll first list each step, followed by a general explanation when necessary. We will then indicate, in italics,
precisely where the information for Grandma Moses' specific
delineation is to be found, and then show that portion of her
synthesis derived by following the instructions. The actual
delineation will be shown indented.
'- ,.(, \')'
STEP 1
DERIVE THE ELEMENTS OF THE CORE.
From the calculation instructions in Chapters 3 through 6:
Grandma Moses was born Anna Mary Robertson on
September 7, 1860. Therefore, she has:
22/4 Life Path
6 Expression
9 Soul Urge
7 Birthday
STEP 2
EXPRESS THE CENTRAL FOCUS OF THE LIFE PATH.
The central focus remains the same irrespective of the other
core elements. .
Step-by-step
partial core
synthesis
with a
master
number
element
79
80 PART II: THE CORE
From CHART 2: THE LIFE PATH copy the central focus of the 22
Life Path and the 4 Life Path shown in the upper horizontal
division.
22 Life Path
Learn the ultimate mastery of combining the highest spiritual ideals with the enormous power to
achieve the largest of material goals. With this
master number, you have added perceptions,
added awarenesses ....
Provide an explanation of the special choice available with a
master number.
Your lesson in life, just outlined, is a high level
lesson, indeed. Along with this high level lesson,
there is an additional lesson on a mundane level.
The potential of the higher lesson is available
when you feel capable of handling the energy, but
you may choose to spend some or a good deal of
your time on the mundane lesson. I would suspect
that, as a child or young adult, you found it far
easier to operate on the lower level. As you grew
older, you probably found yourself better able to
handle the higher level power.
4 Life Path:
·On the mundane level, learn the advantage of
order and service in accomplishing your work. You
will probably be involved in practical, down-toearth work. You must learn the rewards of service.
You will have to determine where your duty
lies ....
STEP 3
EXPRESS THE SUB-FOCUS OF THE BIRTHDAY.
From CHART 5: THE BIRTHDAY use the keywords for the 7 Birthday. To elaborate on these keywords, read the central focus of
the 7 Life Path found in Chart 2.
While you're learning to be a master builder and
learning the lesson of limitation, order and service, learn also how to use analysis and understanding ....
CHAPTER 8: CORE WITH MASTER NUMBERS
STEP 4
EXPRESS THE HARMONY OR DISCORD OF THE LIFE
PATH/BIRTHDAY ASPECT.
From CHART 6: THE ASPECTS read the 7·22 aspect-usually
discordant. The aspect, as written in the chart, expresses the
conflict of the 7 energy with the prevailing 22 energy.
Your introspective ways conflict with your potential for working toward substantial material
achievement. -
From the same chart, read the 4· 7 aspect-usually harmonious.
Rewrite the aspect to express the enhancement of the prevailing
4 energy by the 7 energy.
Your capability at study and research will help in
working toward an awareness of system and order.
STEP 5
DETERMINE THE HARMONY OR DISCORD OF THE
LIFE PATH/EXPRESSION AND THE LIFE PATH/SOUL
URGE ASPECTS.
From CHART 6: ASPECTS:
The 22 Life Pathl6 Expression is usually harmonious. The
potential of the 6 for responsibility and concern for others is
enhanced by t1w p()/ential of the 22 for substantial material
achievement, but the nervous tension of the 22 will be a partial
detriment to the 6 approach.
The 22 Life Pathl9 Soul Urge is usually harmonious. The
potential of the 9 for giving to others is enhanced by the potential of the 22 for significant material achievement.
The 22 Life Path, 6 Expression and 9 Soul Urge are usually all
working together in a harmonious manner. Although the 22
represents a potential difficult to achieve, Grandma Moses will
find the additional harmonious energy of great help.
The 4 Life Pathl6 Expression is usually harmonious. The potential of the 4 for system and order enhances the potential of
the 6 for responsibility and concern.
The 4 Life Pathl9 Soul Urge is usually discordant. The potential of the 4 for fixity of approach conflicts with the potential of
the 9 for giving to others.
81
82 PART II: THE CORE
The 4 Life Path and 6 Expression, representing eighty percent
of the cores energy, are in conflict with the 9 Soul Urge, representing twenty percent of the core's energy. The 4 potential for
system and order works along with the balance and responsibility of the 6 (and the humanitarianism of the 9, although it is
not specifically mentioned in the chart). The 4 rigidity conflicts
with the giving qualities of the 9 (and the flexibility of the 6,
again not specifically mentioned in the chart).
STEP 6
EXPRESS THE CHARACTERISTICS OF THE LIFE PATH.
Modify the Life Path characteristics based on the aspects found
in Step 5.
From CHART 2: THE LIFE PATH list the characteristics of the 22
Life Path from the second horizontal division. Study each trait
to determine if it is affected by the harmony with the 6 Expression and the 9 Soul Urge. Modify the characteristic to express
this effect.
You are probably extremely capable at whatever
work you choose, with the possibility of rising. to
the top of your profession. Even when you are not
accomplishing, your latent capability is most obvious.
The 6 balance and the 9 universality add to this characteristic,
but it ~ already so strongly stated that any addition would be
superfluous.
You are probably practical. You have an innate
understanding of the forces involved in material
problems.
This trait is expressed as indicated on Chart 2. The 22· 6 and
22·9 do not add or subtract.
Although you have an unorthodox way about you,
this is apt to be expressed in a reasonably balanced manner. Your significant perceptions of universal matters will provide you with avenues not
available to others or often not understandable to
others. You may well operate on a different wavelength than others, but you probably know how to
make yourself understood .
. The balance of the 6 and the universality of the 9 offset the
unorthodox 22 tendencies.
CHAPTER 8: CORE WITH MASTER NUMBERS
You're likely to have a charismatic personality.
The glow of your inner fire will probably be visible
to all. Even when you're not accomplishing all that
might be expected, others will be drawn by the
excitement, balance and humanity expressed in
your activities.
The balance of the 6 and the humanitarianism of the 9 are
noted in the last sentence.
Your special awarenesses and capabilities are usually accompanied by an almost electric field of
nervous tension which can rarely be hidden.
This trait is expressed as indicated on Chart 2. The 22·6 and
22·9 do not add or subtract.
From CHART 2: THE LIFE PATH list the characteristics of the 4
Life Path from the second horizontal division. Study each trait
to determine if it is affected by the 4· 6 harmony or the 4· 9
discord. Modify the characteristic to express this effect.
You are probably practical and capable of systematizing and managing. You can produce order
where little exists.
This trait is expressed as indicated on Chart 2. The 4·6 doesn't
add and the 4· 9 doesn't subtract.
You are willing to work long and hard and have '" '- ,.(. \.)-
much, patience with detail. You are very conscientious and often seem to do better with difficult
problems than with simpler work. Occasionally,
you may seem to make the work harder by your
peculiar approach, but you are, nevertheless, capable of completing the work.
The 9 energy tends to somewhat modify the 4 Jixity. Therefore,
the addition of the "occasionally" at the beginning of the last
sentence.
You have a serious approach, express honesty and
sincerity and are extremely responsible.
The 6 responsibility adds to the responsibility of the 4 energy.
You have fairly strong likes and dislikes and express what you feel is right and wrong with some
strength.
The 6 and 9 flexibility tones down the 4 rigidity.
83
,',
~. .l
f
t~.
84 PART II: THE CORE
At times, you have a somewhat fixed approach.
This may express as strength to accomplish a task
or as stubbornness.
The 6 and 9 flexibility tones down the 4 rigidity.
STEP 7
EXPRESS THE CHARACTERISTICS OF THE BIRTHDAY.
From CHART 5: .THE BIRTHDAY summarize the characteristics of
the 7 Birthday. Remember, from Step 4, that the 22 Life
Pathl7 Birthday is usually discordant while the 4 Life Pathl7
Birthday is usually harmonious. Modify the traits as required.
You aren't particularly adaptable. You often prefer
working alone but feel isolated. You need time to
rest and meditate, particularly after you've been
working with others on any substantial project.
Although the 4· 7 is usually harmonious, the 4 here adds to the
lack of adaptability. The effect of the 22· 7 is noted in the last
sentence.
You're likely to be introspective ....
Continue with the rest of the Birthday characteristics.
STEP 8
DISCUSS THE NEGATIVE EXPRESSION OF THE LIFE
.,f > PATH .
. Remember that the negative expression is determined,
to a strong extent, by the free will and environment. This section warns of the potential problems inherent in the negative
expression.
From CHART 2: THE LIFE PATH read the negative expression of
the 22 Life Path in the third horizontal division. If she expresses
negatively at all, Grandma Moses will tend to express the
second negative expression, the denial of the lesson. The first
negative expression is unlikely because of the added harmony of
the 6 and 9 energies, but it, too, must be mentioned.
If you feel overwhelmed by your powers, you may
retreat from using them. You will then accomplish
little, feel frightened by the world around you and
uncomfortable with your nervous tension.
There's a slight chance that you'll use your substantial powers for your own selfish ends, but, con-
CHAPTER 8: CORE WITH MASTER NUMBERS
sidering your sense of balance and your concern
for others, this isn't very likely.
From CHART 2: THE LIFE PATH read the negative expression of
the 4 Life Path in the third horizontal division. If Grandma
Moses expresses negatively at all, she will tend to express the
first negative expression, the exaggeration of the lesson. The
second negative expression is unlikely because of the added
balance of the 6 and 9 energies, but it, too, must be mentioned.
If you feel overwhelmed by feelings of limitation,
these feelings may stem from your own stubborn
and obstinate manner and your rigid approach;
but you probably would be hard pressed to see
that you are causing your own problems.
There's a slight chance that you'll be disorganized
and irresponsible, but considering your sense of
balance and your concern for others, this isn't very
likely.
Indicate the unproductivity.
These negative expressions are unproductive. They
should be avoided in order to proceed constructively with your development.
The delineation would continue with Steps 9 through 22 as outlined in Chapter 7. The aspects and effectiveness would relate
to both the 22 Life Path and th~ 4 Life Path.
Let's examine some special situations involving master numbers. Let's assume a subject with a master number for a Birthday (born on the 11th,. 22nd or 29th) and the other master
number as one of the other elements. (If the Birthday and the
other element are the same master number, read Chapter 9
before proceeding with the core synthesis.)
Suppose we find a person with an 11/2 Birthday and a 22/4
Expression. The Birthday reading is found on CHART 5: THE
BIRTHDAY, and the 22/4 Expression would be delineated like the
Grandma Moses example with both the 22 Expression and the 4
Expression described and compared to the other energies. The
existence of two master numbers in the core would produce
heightened perceptions and power potential along with a high
level of tension. This is' a difficult combination to handle and
will take much maturity to handle wisely. A child or young
Birthday
and one
additional
element
with
master
numbers
85
I
I
I :j
86
Two elements
other than
Birthday
with master
numbers
PART II: THE CORE
adult, particularly, with this configuration is likely to have hard
going. The delineation should express the difficulty an:d the
struggle, but also emphasize the very special gifts involved and
the significant possibilities.
A more powerful combination exists with a subject having
two elements, other than the Birthday, with two different
master numbers. (If the master numbers are the same, read
Chapter 9.)
Paul McCartney, born James Paul McCartney on June 18,
1942, has a 22/4 Life Path, an 1112 Expression, a 5 Soul Urge
and a 9 Birthday. Seventy percent of his core consists of master
energy potential. If a person with one master number can be
compared to a moon rocket on the launching pad, you can imagine the energy level with two master numbers. A most difficult combination with which to come to grips! The potential is
enormous, but these people, beset with nervous tension, often
wonder why they accomplish so little with so much latent .ability. Paul McCartney seems to have managed to focus his potentials for significant development. He represents a subject who
may be said to have overcome the difficulties inherent in his
master number potential. I would assume that he is bristling
with energy, awareness and tension.
McCartney's synthesis is a more complicated affair than
when only one master number is present. In his delineation,
the 22 Life Path energy must be related to the 11 Expression as
.. well as the 2 Expression. The 4 Life Path energy must also be
related to the 11 and 2 Expression energies. The 5 Soul Urge
must be related to the 22 and 4 Life Paths as well as the 11 and
2 Expressions. The procedure is similar to the Grandma Moses
delineation, but the number of combinations is increased. All
of these energies are active in the subject and have to be
described.
A master number in the core calls special attention to the
subject. It indicates the possibilities of significant perceptions
and powers. It always indicates nervous tension. More often
than not, you'll find a person struggling to understand and release the enormous energies he feels but has not learned to
master. Occasionally, you'll find a subject bewildered or overwhelmed by these forces. Many times, the person will endeavor
to make life easier by depressing the master number and operating primarily on the lower level, leaving only glimpses of the
potent latent energy. The individual with a master number
may choose to ignore or forget the higher potential, but, if you
look closely, the tension is almost always visible. The master
number is, indeed, a mixed blessing.
CHAPTER 9: CORE WITH REPEATED NUMBERS
CHAPTER 9
CORE SYNTHESIS
WITH REPEATED
NUMBER ELEMENTS
Charlie has a core with a 1 Life Path
2 Expression
3 Soul Urge
,·r· ). 4 Birthday.
We can see that Charlie has many different potentials: leadership potential from the 1, sensitivity from the 2, artistic expression from the 3, self-disCipline from the 4-to name just a
few. It's clear at a glance that Charlie has all sorts of energies
he can develop, many directions in which to grow and develop.
Charlie's friend, Amy,. has a core with a
2 Life Path
3 Expression
6 Soul Urge
9 Birthday.
Amy has many different potentials, too: the diplomatic
potential of the 2, the social and artistic potential of the 3, the
responsible, loving and creative potential of the 6, the humanitarian potential of the 9. Although she has all sorts of energies,
they seem to fall together in two groups. Amy is likely to do
well with people: she is likely to combine the diplomatic,
social, responsible, loving and humanitarian potentials. And
Amy can also develop another side: her artistic and creative
potentials. Amy's energies are probably easier to focus' than
8i
88 PART II: THE CORE
Charlie's, but both friends have many exciting avenues to
explore.
Amy's friend, Jill, has a different kind of core. She has a
6 Life Path
1 Expression
6 Soul Urge
5 Birthday
Instead of the ·usual core with four different numbers, Jill has
a core with only three. Now, she still has much potential to develop: the responsible, loving and creative potential of the 6,
the leadership potential of the 1, the adaptable and imaginative
potential of the 5-but-and this is a big BUT -the potential is
poorly balanced. While thirty percent of Jill's core is devoted to
1 potential and ten percent is devoted to 5 potential, a substantial sixty percent is devoted to 6 potential. You might assume
that it would be desirable to have all that loving, responsible,
creative energy. It can be desirable, but only after Jill learns
how to handle the problems created by the imbalance.
If Jill had only one 6 core element, she'd tend to be a balanced person-loving and responsible. With the two 6 core
elements, she has an excess of loving potential and an excess of
responsibility potential. In her young years, Jill is likely to express much love and much responsibility. She can probably handle any and all responsibility, so her friends and family
are always asking her to help-and she does help, willingly,
.r . • -. lovingly·, no matter how much time it takes.
So what's the problem? Dear, sweet Jill isso loving, so giv-
-ing, so helpful, she probably never has time for her own needs,
may even feel she has few personal needs that are important.
She's so busy helping others that she doesn't realize she's
become a drudge, a doormat, a virtual slave. Jill is undoubtedly giving a great deal, but, in the process, she isn't growing
and developing-she's fallen victim to her unbalanced core.
At some time in her life, Jill is likely to get tired of the heavy
burden she's assumed. She's likely to begin to decide which responsibilities are legitimately hers, which people she cares to
help. With some practice in becoming more discriminating,
Jill's life can change for the better. She'll no longer be taken for
granted or be treated like a doormat. In addition, she'll be willing and able to take care of her own needs, have time to explore
the closeness of relations with others, and begin to develop new
depths of feeling and understanding. Jill will have succeeded in
changing the imbalance into a dynamic positive force.
IF TWO CORE ELEMENTS HAVE THE SAME NUMBER,
THE SUBJECT WILL PROBABLY STAR T OUT IN LIFE
CHAPTER 9: CORE WITH REPEATED NUMBERS
EXPRESSING ONE (OR BOTH) NEGATIVE EXTREMES
OF THE POTENTIAL INSTEAD OF THE POSITIVE POTENTIAL:
1. USING THE ENERGY ALMOST EXCLUSIVELY SO
THAT IT BECOMES THE FOCUS OF A DISBAL~
ANCED APPROACH. POSITIVE POTENTIAL MAY BE
EXPRESSED AT THE SAME TIME.
2. ALMOST COMPLETELY IGNORING THE POTENTIAL.
Jill, of course, was using the first extreme. She concentrated
on being loving and responsible to the detriment of her own
development. Although she suffered as a consequence, she was
using the 6 energy in an unbalanced manner-even though it
included the expression of the 6 positive potential.
Ninety-eight out of a hundred people with 6·6 energy express
that first extreme. Sometimes, that first extreme is tempered by
short periods of the second extreme-in the 6·6 case, periods of
irresponsibility and coolness. In rare cases, you'll find the 6·6
energy expressed completely by the second extreme: a person
who is almost always aloof, unloving, unwilling to handle responsibilities.
The doubled core element usually presents substantial obstacles to development-but ALL OBSTACLES ARE CAPABLE
OF BEING OVERCOME. Only the individual involved can
decide when he or she wants to shift from the negative to the
positive potentiaL . • '
One path to a balanced approach is found by adding the
doubled numbers and expressing the positive potential of the
sum. A way out of the 6·6 difficulties is to express the positive 3
potential: (6 + 6 = 12, 1 + 2 = 3)-trade in the heavy
approach of the doormat for the lighter expression of the joy of
living of the 3.
Turn to CHART 6: THE ASPECTS and study the negative ex- Chart 6:
tremes associated with each pair of doubled numbers. For each The Aspects
number, the first description indicates the overuse of the energy
while the second description expresses the ignoring of the
energy. A path to a more balanced approach is included after
the description of the extremes.
(If we're dealing with 9·9 energy, a path to a more balanced
approach is not as simple to derive, since 9 + 9 = 18 and
1 + 8 = 9. The path here is defined as the positive potential
of the 1 and 8.)
89
,.~
gO
Examples of
doubled core
elements
PART II: THE CORE
We can look at the lives of some well-known people to better
understand the problems of the doubled elements as well as the
contributions possible either because of, or in spite of, the imbalance. (Included are a few infamous individuals who were
unable to use their free will to overcome their problems.) Compare the descriptions in CHART 6: THE ASPECTS with the energies
actually expressed.
The people we're using as examples are often expressing
VERY EXTREME examples of the energies we've been describing. I've purposely picked these extreme examples to graphically illustrate the dynamics involved. (In most of these cases,
the energies of the doubled core elements are directly related to
the fame-or infamy-of the subject.) Obviously, most people
are not expressing anything like these extremes.
John L. Lewis (John Llewellyn Lewis) was born on February
12, 1880.
The charismatic leader of the coal miners union had a 1 Expression and a 1 Soul Urge. Lewis was known for his hard-headed
negotiations with the mine owners, his unwillingness to back
down. He used his forceful, dominating stance to achieve constructive ends. Rather than change the 1·1 negative energy to
positive, he found a fulfilling way of making the negative
energy work for him. A highly unusual, but successful, approach .
.. Jack Ruby (Jacob Rubenstein) was born on March 23, 1911.
The nightclub owner who killed Lee Oswald had an 1112 Life
. Path and an 11/2 Soul Urge. The culminating act of his life was
an extreme negative expression of the distorted idealism associated with 11·11 energy. Ruby compounded the confusion surrounding the Kennedy assassination, a negative expression of
the 2·2 energy. He was unable to come to grips with either the
high or low level energy of the master number.
Richard Speck (Richard Benjamin Speck) was born on December 6, 1941.
This mass murderer had a 3 Expression and a 3 Soul Urge. He
was unable to express his deep-seated anger through normal
channels. Speck's senseless killings were related, in an extreme
manner, to his inability to come to grips with his difficulties
with self-expression, a negative expression of the 3·3 energy.
John Mitchell (John Newton Mitchell) was born on September
15, 1913.
CHAPTER 9: CORE WITH REPEATED NUMBERS
Nixon's Attorney General has a 22/4 Soul Urge and a 4 Expression. He went to prison because of his involvement with Watergate. His stubborn attitude (overuse of the 4 energy) and his
lack of feeling of accountability (ignoring the 4 energy) were
some of the traits responsible for his problems. Mitchell's undoing was a result of his inability to cope with both extremes of
the negative 4·4 potential.
Martin Luther King (Michael Luther King) was born on January 15, 1929.
The brilliant leader of the civil rights movement had a 5
Expression and a 5 Soul Urge. King worked as meaningfully as
any American in this century to demonstrate the possibilities of
using freedom constructively. This Nobel Prize winner is an extremely rare example of a powerful use of positive potential
without any trace of the negative expression of the 5·5. When
the doubled energy is properly harnessed, there is, as in King's
example, a virtually limitless reservoir of positive power.
Montgomery Clift was born on October 17, 1920.
The superb actor had a 6 Expression and a 6 Soul Urge. His sensitive and brilliant performances in films (the positive expression of his 3 Life Path as well as the creativity of the 6 energy)
made him a top box-office attraction. His difficulties in expressing friendship and love as well as his irresponsible personal
habits, negative expressions of the 6·6 potential, contributed to
his unhappy life and early death. ".'- .. ('.).
General Douglas MacArthur was born on January 26, 1880.
The superb strategist had an 8 Life Path and an 8 Birthday. He
was directly responsible for many of our brilliant victories in
World War II and served as virtual dictator of Japan after the
armistice. His superb intelligence and ability to perform in
difficult situations contributed to his shining reputation. His
obsession with himself-his rigid attitudes, his cool manner, his
prideful ways-kept him from achieving the presidency, as he
would have liked. MacArthur used the positive side of the 8'8,
but never overcame the problems presented by the negative
potential.
Richard Nixon (Richard Milhous Nixon) was born on January
9, 1913.
This President has a 9 Expression and a 9 Birthday. During his
term in office, Nixon was insensitive to others' needs. He was
91 ~~"~~~~§f~~¢~::!l~~" .':1.cfJ,I •
. ~ :i ~·f ~j: :
..
.~
:1
"
92
Relation
to age
'- .. ('.,.
PART II: THE CORE
self-centered, often inflexible. He brought on his own downfall
because he could not overcome the negative g.g energy.
In the examples above, you can observe the wide spectrum of
expression possible with the doubled core elements. The stepby-step delineation which follows presents the special way a
reading is handled with this type of energy.
All readings have some negative components to them, just as
all people have some problems to work on. In the reading for
Hal Allen in Chapter 7, the basic energy expressed has a strong
positive direction so that the inclusion of some negative comments does not detract from the basically constructive tone.
This is typical of most readings. In the reading which follows,
however, the doubled core elements create such a strong
negative potential that a constructive tone can only be
established if the reading clearly emphasizes the positive potential while still effectively stating the negative.
The doubled core element readings have a slightly different
cast depending on the age of the subject. In my experience, in
subjects between birth and age twenty, the negative energy is
usually strongly expressed, the positive energy likely to be in
disbalance. In the delineation, describe the negative potential
as the probable present state, but emphasize the positive potential and the direction to its achievement as desirable and viable
objectives.
Between the ages of twenty and forty, a subject will usually
come to grips with the alternatives. More often than not, the
. obstacles will, to a large extent, be overcome. A delineation
given during this time would give almost equal weight to the
positive and negative potentials, but would stress the considerable advantages of solving the life· problems.
After age forty, there is a strong possibility that the subject is
proceeding primarily with his positive potential, perhaps with
minor fall-backs to earlier stages. The reading would emphasize the positive direction he has achieved and maintained,
would discuss the negative potential as primarily a thing of the
past.
The following delineation covers those parts of the 22 steps of
Chapter 7 which are affected by the doubled core elements.
We are reading for a fictitious subject, and assuming that the
reading is given somewhere near Hilde's thirtieth birthday.
CHAPTER 9: CORE WITH REPEATED NUMBERS
We'll proceed as we did in Chapters 7 and 8. We'll first list
each step, followed by a general explanation when necessary.
We will then indicate, in italics, precisely where the information for Hilde's specific delineation is to be found, and then
show that portion of her synthesis derived by following the instructions. The actual delineation will be shown indented.
STEP 1
DERIVE THE ELEMENTS OF THE CORE.
From the calculation instructions in Chapters 3 through 6:
Hilde Agatha Parsons was born on July 21, 1950. Therefore, she has:
STEP 2
7 Life Path
7 Expression
6 Soul Urge
3 Birthday
EXPRESS THE CENTRAL FOCUS OF THE LIFE PATH.
The central focus remains the same irrespective of the other
core elements.
From CHART 2: THE LIFE PATH copy the central focus of the 7
Life Path shown in the upper horizontal division. , -
Learn the 'peace of mind that comes with knowing
yourself. You have a good mind and a fine intuition. You must study and contemplate, learn not
to judge from appearances, but search for the hidden truths. Your life should be devoted to analyzing the world about you, learning to trust your intuition, developing until you reach the highest
levels of wisdom. You must not emphasize
material things in your life, but rather must
become aware of the non-material forces. You
must learn to spend time by yourself without feeling isolated. You must learn to wait for opportunities which work to your advantage rather than
actively seeking opportunities. Amid the hurlyburly of the world, your development depends on
your ability to retire into yourself to find faith and
peace.
Step-by -step
partial core
synthesis
with doubled
core elements
93
94 PART II: THE CORE
STEP 3
EXPRESS THE SUB-FOCUS OF THE BIRTHDAY.
This step is not related to the doubled core elements. Proceed as
in Chapter 7.
STEP 4
EXPRESS THE HARMONY OR DISCORD OF THE LIFE
PATH/BIRTHDAY ASPECT.
This step is not related to the doubled core elements. Proceed as
in Chapter 7.
STEP 5
DETERMINE THE HARMONY OR DISCORD OF THE
LIFE PATH/EXPRESSION AND THE LIFE PATH/SOUL
URGE ASPECTS.
Although we have not yet delineated the Expression and the
Soul Urge, we must, at this point, determine the aspects related
to the Life Path because that harmony or discord will modify
the Life Path Characteristics and negative expression expressed
in Steps 6 and 7.
From CHART 6: THE ASPECTS:
7 Life Pathl7 Expression is usually very discordant.
Extremely self-contained and inflexible. A "different" point of
dew that. may appear to others as considerably eccentric. Difficult to get to know -purposely puts others off because she is
rrJ,Ore camfortable keeping her distance from others.
or
Timid, shy, retiring. Very dependent on others and most
resentful of that dependency. Efforts to stand alone often
thwarted.
Possible approach to alleviate difficulties: she must work to express more freely. She has to learn to take advantage of opportunities by being more adaptable. She must also learn to express
feelings in an honest manner, rather than hiding them.
7 Life Path/6 Soul Urge is usually discordant. The potential of
the 6 for responsibility and concern for others conflicts with the
introspective potential of the 7.
From CHART 3: THE EXPRESSION read the 7 Expression and from
CHART 4: THE SOUL URGE read the 6 Soul Urge to become
familiar with the basic reading for these elements.
Not only is the Life Path/Expression usually very discordant,
CHAPTER 9: CORE WITH REPEATED NUMBERS
but the Life Path/Soul Urge is usually discordant, too. That's a
lot of negative energy to overcome! Remember that Hilde, at
age thirty, is likely to have a lot of awareness of her problems
and is likely to be in the process of transforming her energies to
more positive directions. The delineation could provide an active boost to Hilde's desire for transformation.
STEP 6
EXPRESS THE CHARACTERISTICS OF THE LIFE PATH.
Modify the Life Path characteristics based on the aspects found
in Step 5.
From CHART 2: THE LIFE PATH list the characteristics of the 7
Life path from the second horizontal division. Study each trait
to determine the effect of the predominant discord with the 7
Expression and the 6 Soul Urge. Modify the characteristic to express this effect.
You are likely to have a "different" point of view
because you probably operate on a considerably
different wavelength than others. This will probably prove an extremely powerful tool for you, because it will give you access to unique solutions
and unique approaches to problems which just
aren't available to other people.
At your age, you may have discovered that you
sometimes·have trouble communicating these special insights. Others may have difficulty understanding you 'or may even look at some of your
approaches as eccentric. I suspect you're working
on improving your communication so that your
messages can be delivered with maximum impact.
If, at times, you feel confused about some of these
unusual ideas, it may be helpful to meditate or talk
to a close friend to clarify the areas of confusion.
The 7· 7 emphasizes the problems of the "differentness." The
first paragraph expresses the very positive potential, the second
paragraph discusses the problem and the solutions to the problem. Because of Hilde's age, the second paragraph is phrased on
the assumption that she is already working on helping herself.
The short paragraph in Chart 2 on the "differentness" characteristic has been considerably changed to account for the effect
of the 7· 7 potential.
I expect that you started out in life as a person
95
96 PART II: THE CORE
who was difficult to know well. You may have appeared cool and aloof, possibly timid, shy and retiring. I know that the distance you expressed in
your early years was probably a surface veneer
you felt you needed for protection. You've probably worked on overcoming this need to stand
apart, have probably learned how to express your
feelings far more openly and honestly than before.
Continue- your work in this area. The more open
your feelings, the less distance you'll feel with
others and the easier it will be to further your
interests.
Again, the Chart 2 paragraph has been substantially revised to
account for the 7· 7 energy. When the positive aspects of the 6
Soul Urge are described, special emphasis should be placed on
Hilde's potential to be sympathetic, kind and generous and to
give out much friendship, affection and love, as described in
CHART 4: THE SOUL URGE. You may even want to mention this
positive potential in the paragraph above and reiterate it in the
Soul Urge description.
You're likely to be introspective, somewhat turned
in on yourself. You probably often appear reserved
and thoughtful. There's another part of you, however, that expresses much in the way of friendship
and affection, even shares some of the deep emotions. I expect that more of the second energy is
expressed now than in your younger years. Continue to bring out that loving potential.
Here, we specifically mention the 6 Soul Urge as a contrast to
the reserved approach. But the introspective quality is stated
clearly, too. Don't distort the delineation because of the difficulty of expressing the negative traits-rather, learn to express
them in a constructive light.
You probably primarily depend on yourself ....
The delineation would continue with the characteristics from
Chart 2, strongly modified by the discordant energies.
STEP T
EXPRESS THE CHARACTERISTICS OF THE BIRTHDAY.
This step is not related to the doubled core elements. Proceed as
in Chapter 7.
CHAPTER 9: CORE WITH REPEA TED NUMBERS
STEP 8
DISCUSS THE NEGATIVE EXPRESSION OF THE LIFE
PATH.
For most individuals, like Hal Allen in Chapter 7, the negative
expression is determined, to a strong extent, by the free will
and the environment, although it's also related to the Life
Path/Expression aspect and the Life Path/Soul Urge aspect. For
Hilde, though, the doubled core elements will tend to produce
a negative approach to the Life Path, particularly in her early
years.
From CHART 2: THE LIFE PATH read the negative expression of
the 7 Life Path in the third horizontal division. Since the delineation is being given in Hilde's thirtieth year, treat the negative
expression as something that has probably been at least partially transformed.
I've already mentioned your tendency to be introspective and self-centered. Sometimes, a person
with your chart configuration emphasizes these
characteristics to become a virtual recluse. If this
did occur in your early years, I suspect you found
that the lack of contact was uncomfortable and
made it difficult to grow and develop.
Your chart indicates a strong inner life. If you
found this introverted path of little satisfaction,
particularly as a chifd or young adult, you may
have tried to ignore your inner resources, concentrated instead on the gratifications of the material
world. You probably found that this approach didn't give the satisfactions you expected. If you want
to grow, you have a far better chance if you move
onto your own track and develop your strong
potentials.
STEP 9
EXPRESS THE ABILITIES OF THE EXPRESSION.
The abilities remain the same irrespective of the other core
elements.
From CHART 3: THE EXPRESSION copy the abilities of the 7 Expression shown in the upper horizontal division.
You have a good mind and good intuition. You're
97
'.~ :.
~
98 PART II: THE CORE
capable of analyzing, judging, discriminating. You
like to search for wisdom or hidden truths. You
often become an authority on subjects that interest you -technical, scientific, religious or occult.
You have the potential to be an educator, philosopher, researcher.
You have an awareness of spiritual matters, although this may be a latent characteristic. You operate on a "different" wavelength which may give
you unique approaches and solutions to problems.
Although Hilde possesses these potential abilities, it's probable
that all aren't being used. The delineation should indicate these
possibilities.
It's possible that you're not using or developing all
of these capabilities at this time. Some of your
talents may have been used in the earlier part of
your life and some may still be latent. Be aware of
your capabilities, so that you can make use of
them at appropriate times.
STEP 10
EXPRESS THE HARMONY OR DISCORD OF THE LIFE
PATH/EXPRESSION ASPECT.
From CHART 6: THE ASPECTS we already know that the 7 Life
Pathl7 Expression is very discordant. Rather than stress this
strong negativity in one place, portions of the aspect were included in Step 6 and additional portions will be included in
Steps 13 and 14.
STEP 11
EXPRESS THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THE LIFE PATH/EXPRESSION COMBINATION.
The subject has a 7 Life Path and a 7 Expression. 7 - 7 = 0
spaces. When there are no spaces between the combined
elements, they are negatively directed and relatively ineffective. There is no paragraph in the Table of Effectiveness in
Chapter 7 to cover this because it is already covered in the very
discordant Life Path/Expression aspect. The material is incorp'orated as discussed in Step 10.
!
'l.
!
CHAPTER 9: CORE WITH REPEA TED NUMBERS
STEP 12
DETERMINE THE HARMONY OR DISCORD OF THE EXPRESSION/LIFE PATH AND THE EXPRESSION/SOUL
URGE ASPECTS.
The harmony or discord of the aspects related to the Expression
will modify the Expression positive attitudes and negative attitudes expressed in Steps 13 and 14.
From CHART 6: THE ASPECTS:
The 7 Expressionl7 Life Path is usually very discordant. See
Step 5.
The 7 Expressionl6 Soul Urge is similar to the
-7 Life Path/6
Soul Urge discussed in Step 5 and is usually discordant. The
potential of the 6 for responsibility and concern for others conflicts with the introspective potential of the 7.
All the energy is either discordant or very discordant.
STEP 13
EXPRESS THE POSITIVE ATTITUDES OF THE EXPRESSION.
Modify the positive attitudes of the Expression based on the
aspects found in Step 12.
From CHART 3: THE EXPRESSION list the positive attitudes of the 7
Expression from the middle horizontal division. Study each
trait to determine- how' it is affeCted by the strong discord with
the 7 Life Path and the discord with the 6 Soul Urge.
You probably have strong perfectionist tendencies
which help you complete your projects in superb
style. When you carry this to extremes or pursue
perfection with an air of inflexibility, you may
undermine your accomplishments.
The perfectionist tendency is appreciated when used in a
balanced manner. The inflexibility noted in the 7· 7 negative
potential is added.
You have a very logical, rational approach, little
affected by your emotions.
This trait is not modified by the aspects. Although the 6 Soul
Urge is emotional, the strength of the 7· 7 takes precedence.
You are usually willing _ to work to understand
!:J!:J
,j
(-
~ I~ ~ " '<
~ ,J ~ ~ '1 "oj
~ I~ a~ :{
:~ ;.
"
~ $.
~. ~ ';,
.,
-;.;,
~ i
;~ :~ :;
t~ ',-
:~
:3
I(
fi.
;~ .
. ~
100 PART II: THE CORE
deep, difficult subjects, to search for hidden fundamentals.
This trait is not modified by the aspects.
Although you have the potential to be peaceful
and poised, particularly in your mature years, your
self-contained nature and your tendency to be shy
and retiring may stand in the way of achieving this
potential. with ease.
The 7· 7 discord takes its toll here.
STEP 14
EXPRESS THE NEGATIVE ATTITUDES OF THE EXPRESSION.
Modify the negative attitudes of the Expression based on the
aspects found in Step 12.
From CHART 3: THE EXPRESSION list the negative attitudes of the
7 Expression from the bottom horizontal division. Study each
trait· to see how it is affected by the strong discord with the 7
Life Path and the discord with the 6 Soul Urge ..
I hope you've learned to put more trust in others
than you did when you were younger. Your selfcontainment is likely to make it an effort to get
close, but your concern for others, if you can ex-
.r > ptess it openly, may lead the way to better relations.
The self-containment, from the 7· 7 aspect, and the conflict between concern and introspection, from the 7· 6 aspect, are both
expressed.
In your early years you displayed a lack of adaptability, at times an extreme inflexibility. These
traits work against you. This is an area where
change would be of much benefit.
The 7· 7 again.
The introspection and self-centered characteristics described
next in Chart 3 have already been covered in relation to the
Life Path traits and are omitted here.
There's certainly a loving, responsible side to your
nature, but in the past, it's sometimes been overpowered by your critical, unsympathetic or intolerant attitudes. These latter characteristics are a
strong obstacle to better relations with others.
CHAPTER 9: CORE WITH REPEA TED NUMBERS
The 7· 6 conflict is expressed with, of course, a lot of emphasis
on the positive 6 energy.
You usually prefer to work alone ....
The delineation would continue with the rest of the negative
attitudes of Chart 3, modified by the discordant energies.
STEPS 15 THROUGH 22
Since these steps are not related to the doubled core elements,
proceed as in Chapter 7.
The Birthday is usually compared only with the Life Path to
determine harmony or discord. If the doubled elements are the
Birthday and the Life Path, this is still the only Birthday aspect
described, but that aspect modifies both the Birthday and the
Life Path characteristics.
Change the steps of the core synthesis as follows:
STEP 6. Express the characteristics of the Life Path, modified
by the Life Path/Expression, Life Path/Soul Urge
and Life Path/Birthday aspects.
STEP 8. Discuss the negative expression of the Life Path,
modified by the Life Path/Expression, Life Path/
Soul Urge and Life Path/Birthday aspects.
Althoughwe\'e.thought of the Birthday as only ten percent
of the core, the discordant energy of the doubled elements is so
strong that the Life PathlBirthday aspect should be weighted
about the same as the Life Path/Soul Urge aspect.
Let's suppose, instead, that the Birthday and the Expression
are the doubled core elements. Change the steps of the core
synthesis as follows:
STEP 7. Express the characteristics of the Birthday modified
by the Life Path/Birthday aspect and the Expression/
Birthday aspect.
STEP 12. Determine the harmony or discord of the Expression/Life Path, Expression/Soul Urge and Expression/Birthday aspects.
STEP 13. Express the positive attitudes of the Expression,
modified by the three aspects in Step 12.
Special
delineation:
Birthday and
Life Path
of the
same number
Special
delineation:
Birthday and
Expression
of the
same number
WI Ii: ~.~ \~ ~ ~ ;"
~~1:
~\' it
l,>
~ ~ ~ ~~ .~ J ~ ~ !1,
~ l~ 1
~ ".
~; ~(
.,
~ ~~, ,~:
'" ·1!
~. :~' :i.
:~
<:~ ~ ~: ,}
l}
:r
~ I~ ~ ~, "
~t ~: J i ~ ~
~ .~
..;.
'~
"<;
102
Special
delineation:
Birthday and
Soul Urge
of the
same number
PART II: THE CORE
STEP 14. Express the negative attitudes of the Expression,
modified by the three aspects in Step 12.
Here, the Expression/Birthday aspect should be weighted
about the same as the Expression/Soul Urge aspect.
If the Birthday and the Soul Urge are the doubled
core elements, change the steps of the core synthesis as follows:
STEP 7. Expressthe characteristics of the Birthday modified
by the Life Path/Birthday aspect and the Soul Urge/
Birthday aspect.
STEP 20 Review the harmony or discord of the Life Path/Soul
Urge, the Expression/Soul Urge and the Soul Urge/
Birthday aspects.
STEP 21. Express the positive attitudes of the Soul Urge,
modified by the three aspects in Step 20.
STEP 22. Express the negative attitudes of the Soul Urge,
modified by the three aspects in Step 20.
Weight the Soul Urge/Birthday aspect somewhat less than
the Soul Urge/Expression aspect.
Special case:" If the doubled element is a master number, the delineation '- .. ('.). master would be a combination of the sample delineations in this
numbers . chapter and in Chapter 8. The negative potentials of 22·22 and
4·4 would dominate a reading where two elements are expressas ing 22 energy and the negative potential of 11·11 and 2·2
doubled would similarly form a large portion of a reading where two
core elements are expressing 11 energy. The multiple comparisons
elements described in Chapter 8 would be used.
With 22· 22, if the reading is for a person less than twenty
years old, the 4 energy-particularly the negative 4 energywould be the focus of attention. The 22 positive potential
would be mentioned as a goal to be achieved, if possible, by
the eventual overcoming of the negative 4 and negative 22
potentials. .
If the subject is over twenty, the subject's free will determines whether the 4 energy or the 22 energy is uppermost, so
both 22 and 4 would be given equal attention in the reading.
No matter what the age, the nervous tension associated with
·22·22 is likely to be a predominant factor.
CHAPTER 9: CORE WITH REPEATED NUMBERS
An ll·ll reading would be similar, with the 2 energy expressing strongly to about age twenty. The 2 or the ll, dependent on the subject's free will, would express strongly after
that. The ll·ll high tension is likely to be a strong character
determinant at any age.
If the core has a 22 element and a 4 element, the 22 would,
of course, contain 22 and 4 potential and the 4 negative energy
(from 4·4) would be prominent. The 22 energy would be
covered as in Chapter 8, the 4·4 energy as described in this
chapter. There would be no 22·22 energy present. With an II
element and a 2 element, the II would be read as in Chapter 8,
the 2·2 as in this chapter, and there would be no ll·ll energy
present.
Doubled core elements occur with more frequency than you
might expect. Considerably rarer are the subjects with tripled
core elements. The tripled numbers are treated similarly to the
doubled but, as you can appreciate, there is usually predominantly negative energy at the beginning of life and very substantial obstacles to be overcome.
I expect that in the lives of public figures with tripled core
elements (1) the transformation from negative to positive
energy occurs out of public view, or (2) the contributions based
on their positive potential are made in spite of the substantial
problems of the negative potential. For example:
Howard Hugh_esifJoward Robard Hughes), the eccentric industrialist, was born on December 24, 1905.
He had a 6 Life Path,6 Expression, 6 Birthday (and a 9 Soul
Urge)
John Foster Dulles, the former Secretary of State, was born on
February 25, 1888.
He had a 7 Life Path, 7 Soul Urge, 7 Birthday (and a 5 Expression).
And just think of this:
Gore Vidal, the author, was born on October 3, 1925.
He has a 3 Life Path, 3 Expression, 3 Soul Urge and 3 Birthday!!!
Special case:
tripled
core
elements
Special case:
quadrupled
core
elements
~
103 ~ n"R~ ~ i~ ~ i~ ~ ,1
~~ ,
fi ;!
.~ , ,
;~ ~ ~ g<:
~ ~
:<
>;
[~ j~. .!~. ii'
.~ :,
~: W,.}
11
~ ~
~ i[
~) 'in
,
~
~: i~ . ~~
~ ~
W~:
~~ i
"
i
i
- ,,(- .-).
PART III:
CHARACTER
DELINEATIONTHE MODIFIERS
COllE ,HODIFIEIlS
THE RELATION OF
THE MODIFIERS
TO THE CORE
A complete delineation consists of a synthesis of the core with
the modifiers. If we think of the core as a tennis ball, and the
modifiers as pins stuck into the ball, a delineation would look
like this:
No matter how many pins you stick into the ball, the ball is
clearly visible. NO MATTER HOW MANY MODIFIERS ARE
ADDED TO THE CORE, THE CORE IS CLEARLY VISIBLE. The modifiers are important; they sharpen the focus, add
color and nuance, identify additional potential strengths and
potential obstacles. But, it is the cores focus which is sharpened; it is the core to which color and nuance are supplied; and
it is the core to which additional potentials are added.
107
,.
i
II
i
!
I~
!
~
~ 5i
~
"
~ ~.~
I"
~
~
" ~
~
I11
$
I~
*:~
,~
~. , ~.
~j
.. ~
e i
" it
t~ :.:
!?'
",: ..'f
~~. ,
,
" 's
*-
£-
t.,' ~,." :'
i'~ ~
"
~
;;:.
~;
~:
;.'
~: ,,":~-
CHAPTER 10: USING THE MODIFIERS
CHAPTER 10
USING THE MODIFIERS
A MODIFIER IS ANY ELEMENT USED IN A CHARAC- Definitions
TER DELINEATION WHICH IS NOT ONE OF THE CORE
ELEMENTS. In each reading, there are usually between ten
and twenty-five modifiers.
A MODIFIER NUMBER IS THE NUMBER-1 THROUGH
9, 11 OR 22-CALCULATED FOR A PARTICULAR MODIFIER IN A SPECIFIC DELINEATION.
MODIFIER ENERGY (OR MODIFIER POTENTIAL) IS
THE ENERGY (OR POTENTIAL) ASSOCIATED WITH
THE MODIFIER NUMBER-the energy for individuation,
independence and attainment associated with the 1, the energy
devoted to relation and cooperation of the 2, etc.
From our tennis ball and pins analogy we can surmise that
THE MODIFIERS ALWAYS MODIFY THE CORE, never
the other way round. But what does that mean in doing a
reading?
Let's look at a core with a 3 Life Path, an 8 Expression, a 5
Soul Urge and a 4 Birthday. Connected to this core are eleven
modifiers. The eleven modifier numbers are 1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,
9,11 and 22. In this simple case, with such diffused inodifier
energy, the core will be clearly visible and the modifiers will be
secondary to the core elements.
Suppose, instead, we have the same core with these modifier
numbers: 4,4,4,4,4,4,5,9,5,5,5. We know from Part II that, in
the core, the Life Path has the most energy, the Expression has
How to
group the
energies by
modifier
number
109
~ ;:
".' "
~ ~
~
~
!~ ~ ~
~1
~ i~
~ ~s
~ ~ il
l'~ \"t [1
,i
~j :,i
j
~ t.\~ ~ ~ ~ Ir~ I~ ~ ~ ~
~1 ,
,,"'
'If
"
r
.{
:.1-
tt
~ ~
iJ
n~,~
~ :"(,'
"~ . . ,,;
1 ~ I;
! ~~
kI.::'
t
~ ~ '" f
~, ~
~.-
~-
;1
tj
~~
II
cr.
~:.
110
.. (' .).
PART III: THE MODIFIERS
somewhat less energy, the Soul Urge has less energy than the
Expression and the Birthday has least energy of all. Adding the
modifiers changes the amount oj energy in the core elements,
but doesn't change the relative position of the elements in
regard to energy; the Life Path still has the most energy, the
Birthday the least.
In the example under discussion, the core energies by themselves would be divided like this:
3 energy • • • • • • • • Life Path = 40 %
8 energy ••••••
5 energy ••••
4 energy ••
of core energy
Expression = 30 %
of core energy
Soul Urge = 20%
of core energy
Birthday = 10 %
of core energy
The modifier energies would be added with the understanding that the relative standing of the 3,8,5 and 4 energy stays unchanged. With the modifiers added, our diagram would look
like this:
3 energy
8 energy
5 energy
4 energy
•••••••• ••••••
•••• 00
•• 000
added 5 energy
added 4 energy
Even though there are six modifiers with a modifier number
. of 4, there is still more 5 energy than 4 energy expressed in the
total. Even though there are five modifiers with a modifier
number of 5 and no modifiers with a modifier number of 8,
there is still more 8 energy than 5 energy expressed in the total.
In the delineation, the relative position of the core elements
is expressed by:
1. How many pages (or how much time) is devoted to each element. In this example, the discussion of the 3 energy might
occupy eight paragraphs, while the discussion of the 8
energy would be covered in six paragraphs.
2. The emphasis placed on each element. The paragraphs devoted to the 3 energy might start: "The strongest potential
you have is .... " while the paragraphs devoted to the 4
energy might begin "In addition to the energies already
described, you also have, in a more limited way, . . . "
By expressing the relative position of the core elements in the
delineation, the core stays clearly visible and the modifiers are
relegated to their significant, but secondary, role.
CHAPTER 10: USING THE MODIFIERS
In a typical delineation, all the modifier numbers don't correspond with the numbers of the core elements. For instance,
with that same core of 3 Life Path, 8 Expression, 5 Soul Urge
and 4 Birthday, we might have the following modifiers: 1,1,1,
1,1,4,4,8,8,8,8. The 4 modifier energy would, of course, be
added to the 4 Birthday energy and the 8 modifier energy to the
8 Expression energy.
There isn't any 1 energy in the core, but this energy, with its
potential for independence and leadership, is related, I think
you can see, to the 8 energy with potential for business,
political or organizational leadership. We could group the
energies, with the 1 modifier energy serving as a comfortable
addition to the 8 core energy. The 1 modifier energy can then
be expressed without limiting the visibility of the core. We
would still, of course, preserve the relative positions of the core
elements.
Our core-plus-modifier diagram would look like this:
3 energy
8 energy
4 energy
5 energy
••••••••
•••••• OG
•••• 00
••
added 1 and 8 energy
added 4 energy
IF A MODIFIER NUMBER IS NOT THE SAME AS THE
NUMBER OF A CORE ELEMENT, GROUP THE MODIFIER WITH THE CORE ELEMENT IT MOST CLOSELY
RESEMBLES. If there isn't a 1 core element for instance, the 1
modifier numb~rJ~o!lld be comfortably grouped with a core
element of 8,4 or 5 energies. The 1 energy closely resembles 8
energy, has many qualities related to 4 energy, and some qualities related to 5 energy. If there was an 8 core element, the 1
modifier would best be related to it. If there wasn't an 8 core
element, the 1 modifier could be grouped with a 4 core element. And, if there were neither an 8 nor a 4 core element, the
1 modifier would be grouped with a 5 core element. Let's express these relations in a simple table for easy reference:
Group 1 modifier with 1,8,4,5 core elements
2 2,11,6
3 3,6,9
4 4,1,8
5 5,3;1
6 6,2,9,3
7 7,1
8 8,1,4,22
9 9,6,3,2,11
11 11,2,9,6
22 22,4,8
111
112
.:- lDirecting
modifiers
PART III: THE MODIFIERS
IF THERE ARE MODIFIERS THAT DO NOT CLOSELY
RESEMBLE ANY CORE ELEMENTS, GROUP THESE
MODIFIERS TOGETHER.
Given the same core with its 3 Life Path, 8 Expression, 5 Soul
Urge and 4 Birthday and the following modifiers-1,1,2,4,6,6,
7,8,8,8,11-the energies would be divided like this:
3 energy
8 energy
5 energy
4 energy
Misc.
•••••••• 0 added 6 energy
•••••• 0 0 added 1, 8 energy
••••
•• 0
00
added 4 energy
added 2,7, 11
energy
As you can see, the miscellaneous energies, those energies
that don't group with the core energies, form a separate group
with the least relative energy.
In the last example, we had 1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8, and 11 energy.
By grouping, we were dealing with five groups instead of nine
energies. In the reading, the 3 and 6 energies would be
delineated as one group. We're not saying that the 6 energy is
only used with the 3 energy. We are saying that it's easier to
describe a person's multitudinous characteristics coherently if
the similar 3 and 6 traits are spelled out together and the additional 3 and 6 traits are grouped in the same place. But, in life,
of course, the 6 energy can be used with any (or all) of the other
energies present.
Any energy, of course, may be used with any other energy.
Only the individual can know how he or she combines the dif-
. ferent energies. Aside from keeping the core visible in the delin-
. eation, THE GROUPING OF ENERGIES ADDS TO THE
COHERENCE OF THE DELINEATION.
Up to this point, we've assumed that all modifiers add
energy to the core energies. As a matter of fact, most modifiers
do just that. Sometimes, they add positive energy-enlarging
on the constructive possibilities described by the core potential.
Often, the modifiers add negative energy-introducing obstacles or handicaps which tend to block the constructive
potential.
There are a few modifiers which serve a different function.
CHAPTER' 10: USING THE MODIFIERS
DIRECTING MODIFIERS DIRECT THE ENERGIES DESCRIBED BY THE CORE AND OTHER MODIFIERS. In the
reading, these directing modifiers (described in Chapters 19
and 20) are grouped together separately from both the core
elements and the other modifiers.
In a typical delineation, then, we'll be dealing with four or
five different energy groups plus the directing modifier group.
A good system of organizing our information will be important
to the success of the reading. I've found it helpful to use simple
symbols to emphasize the core elements:
The Life Path is enclosed with 2 circles©
The Expression is enclosed with 1 V2 circles 0
The Soul Urge is enclosed with 1 circle 0
The Birthday is enclosed with 1/2 circle U
Figure 10-1 below is a calculation sheet for our old friend,
Harlan William Allen, showing only the core elements we
developed in Chapter 7.
Calculation
sheet
Date of calculation ----------------_e January 1981
Name by which e HAL ALLEN
person is now known
- •• (" )0.
The Life Path ~May 12 1941
and Birthday . , '
calculation 5 + 0 + 6 = 14
The Soul Urge ~ 2 + (19) 1 + 6 ---'-----'--- calculation ~ 1 . 1 9 91 1 5
HARLAN WILL I AM ALLEN
The Expression J 8 1 9 3 1 5
calculation ~ (27) 9 +
5933914
(34) 7
Figure 10-1
Calculation Sheet with Core Elements:
Hal Allen
13355
+ (17) 8
®
24 =@;
By the time we've completed adding all the modifiers, our
calculation sheet will be.bulging with data. It'll look like Figure
10-2 on page 114.
113
114 PART Ill: THE MODIFIERS
January 1981
HAL ALLEN
~------KARMIC DEBT
9- Chapter 11
5 SUB-ELEMENT May 12,
WITH 5 LIFE PATH----...
1941
Chapter 13 5 +t+ 6
532
6 - 3 3
_-------1 LIFE PATHI
14/5 - Chapter 3
I BIRTHDAYI
Chapter 6
3 - 2 = 1 CHALLENGE ------CHALLENGE
2 + (19) 1 + 6
1 1 9 91 1 5
FIRST LETTER\
Chapter 20
HARLAN WILLIAM ALLEN
FIRST VOWEL---"
Chapter 20
8 93 5 5 33 4 33 5
(25) 7 + (15) 6 + 11
819315 5933914 13355
GROWTH (27) ,,9 + (34) 7 + (17) 8 NUMBER------'-~
Chapter 15
Chapter 12:
FOUR l'S INTENSITY POINT----... , four I's
2 KARMIC LJESSON--------no 2 -
FIVE 3'S INTENSITY POINT}- ~ five 3's
3 PRIME INTENSIFIER one 4
four 5's
6 MODIFIED KARMIC LESSON----no 6 -
7 KARMIC LESSON no 7 -
one 8
three 9's
MATURITY
= ®.
24
Chapter 14
ISOULURGEI
Chapter 5
6-SECRETSELF
Chapter 17
24 =@---1EXPRESSIONI
Chapter 4
NUMBER---MATURITY NUMBER = 5 + 6
Chapter 16
11/2 ~TEMPERAMENT
/ Chapter 19
PHYSICAL WME
MENTAL HALANLLAALLN
EMOTIONAL RII
INTUITIVE
Figure 10-2
Complete Calculation Sheet:
Hal Allen
3-Average
12-Strong
3-Average
O-Weak
CHAPTER 10: USING THE MODIFIERS
The organization sheet (Figure 10-3 below) is helpful in clarifying the energy groups.
Column A lists the different energies from 0 through 22.
(Yes, there is one modifier, the Challenge, where the 0
sometimes occurs.)
Column C, the center column, is specially outlined. Here,
we list all the energy which, depending on the person's will,
can be used with positive or negative potential. This energy includes all the core elements and some of the modifiers.
Column B, the positive energy column, lists the modifiers
with an excess of a specific energy, usually indicating a positive
potential.
+
0
1
2
3
4
5
6 ,_ .• r';).
7 ,..., fn\ 'VI ~
8
9
11
22
DIRECTING
MODIFIERS
1M
'0::/
®
©
Figure 10-3
Organization Sheet
1& R\ ~ ~
Organization
sheet
115
116 PART lII: THE MODIFIERS
Column D, the negative energy column, lists the modifiers
with a lack of a specific energy or an imbalance which produces a negative potential.
Column E lists the energy group with which each energy will
be identified for the purposes of the delineation.
Row F lists the directing modifiers.
Row G lists miscellaneous information.
Hal Allen's If we start to fill out the organization sheet with the core
organization elements describing Harlan William Allen (or Hal Allen for
sheet short), it will look like Figure 10-4 below.
+
0
1
2
3
\11
----t 3
"
----t 5 @)) . 5
----t 6 @; 6
7
8
--t ~ 9 ® 9
11
22
DIR.CTlNG
MODIPI.RS
Figure 10-4
Organization Sheet with Core Elements
,;.
"
,
.:
.1.
CHAPTER 10: USING THE MODIFIERS
An arrow in the left-hand column emphasizes the core element energy groups.
In the right-hand column, each core element will, of course,
be identified with the energy group with its own element
number.
Let's add Hal's modifiers to the organization sheet (Figure
10-5 on page U8). Instead of naming the modifier, let's use a
big black dot for each modifier.
In the right-hand column, we see that most of the energy is
grouped with the core energy. Only the 7 energy, shown in
parentheses, doesn't closely resemble any core energy. For Hal's
delineation, the core and modifier energies would appear like
this:
5 energy •••••••• 0 0 0 0 added 5 and 1
energy
6 energy •••••• 000
9 energy •••• 00
3 energy •• 0 0 0
Misc.
energy 0
added 6 and 2
energy
added 9 and 11
energy
added 3 energy
added 7 energy
Just looking at Hal's organization sheet, even with dots substituted for the modifiers, we can begin to see how much data is
supplied by the modifiers. With9ut knowing any more about
them, we canstarf tb u~derstand how the modifiers color the
core.
Independence or attainment is likely to be important to Hal (two 1 modifiers). He is apt to show
strong independent feelings (positive 1 modifier)
tempered with. difficulties with independence
(negative 1 modifier). He's probably good at expression and is capable of expressing the joy of living (two positive 3 modifiers). Hal is likely to be a
responsible person (neutral 6 modifier added to 6 expression) but may have more responsibility than he
expects (negative 6 modifier).
Using only the keywords for some of the modifiers, we begin
to have a much fuller picture of our fictitious Hal. (Read the
above paragraph along with the summary of Hal's core on page
71.) In the next chapters, we'll introduce all the modifiers
commonly used, define' them, weight them and clarify the
special energies they bring. We'll show how to integrate each of
117
118 PART Ill: THE MODIFIERS
the modifiers into a reading. In Chapter 21, we'll add all of
Hal's modifiers to his core to produce a complete delineation.
By the end of Part III, you'll have all the information for basic
character delineation.
+
0
• • 1 5
• • 2 6
• W
---.. ~ 3 • 3
" @» • ---.. ~ 5 • 5
@ • ---t ~ 6 • 6
• 7 (7)
8
~ ~ 9 ® 9 •
• 11 9
22
DIR.CTlNG •
MODlPl.RS • •
•
Figure 10-5
Organization Sheet with Black Dots for Modifiers
There's a full-size blank organization sheet (Figure 10-6 on
page 119). You may want to make copies and use it in organiz-
. ing the data for your own delineations.
CHAPTER 10: USING THE MODIFIERS
+
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8 ... ,_ .. r' I').
9
11
22
DIRECTING
MODIFIERS
Figure 10-6
Organization Sheet
-
119
,
CHAPTER 11: THE KARMIC DEBTS
CHAPTER 11
SIGNIFICANT DIFFICULTIES:
THE KARMIC DEBTS
A KARMIC DEBT IS A SIGNIFICANT DIFFICULTY Definition
ENCOUNTERED IN THIS LIFE AS PAYMENT FOR THE
MISAPPLICATION OF ENERGlES IN A PAST LIFE. When
present, a Karmic Debt is a very important modifier.
In calculating the Life Path, Expression, Soul Urge and Calculation
Birthday, the elements' are reduced to a single digit or master
number. If the number "behind" the single digit is a karmic
number, the subject has a Karmic Debt. The karmic numbers
are 13, 14, 16 and 19.
4 reduced from 13 represents a 4 element with a 13 Karmic Debt.
5 reduced from 14 represents a 5 element with a 14 Karmic Debt.
7 reduced from 16 represents a 7 element with a 16 Karmic Debt.
1 reduced from 19 represents a 1 element with a 19 Karmic Debt.
Look back at Hal Allen's Life Path calculation on page 113.
As you can see, he has a 14 Karmic Debt along with the 5 Life
Path.
The Karmic Debt occurs in the Birthday for those born on
the 13th, 14th, 16th and 19th of any month.
CHART 7: THE KARMIC DEBT on page 306 describes the different Chart 7:
Karmic Debts. The upper horizontal division describes the The Karmic
reason for the debt and the general characteristics expressed Debt
when a core element is a karmic number. The other horizontal
-,
~
~
121 t
i
i
j
!;!
!,~
r.
~
~ ~ J
'.~
j
"
·r 1i
~
~ ~
i
~ ~ ~f ,~
;~ &:
:::
;;
?
'.
~,
122
Commentary
PART Ill: THE MODIFIERS
divisions express the specific effect on the Life Path, Expression
and Soul Urge. The specific effect on the Birthday is already
included in the description of the Birthday in CHART 5: THE
BIRTHDAY.
I express the significance of the Karmic Debt by writing the
element as 13/4, 14/5, 16/7 or 19/1. The strong characteristics
of the Karmic Debt may be one of the forces dominating the
life. The Debt, caused by misuse of some of a person's forces in
a previous existence, can be paid up in this life only by overcoming the strong negative effects of the very same forces. A
Karmic Debt (sometimes called a Testing Number, Warning
Number or Hidden Number) weighs a person down with
negative potential. He must struggle against his own integral
nature to pay the debt and balance the account.
Energies, you recall, can be expressed on a broad continuum
stretching from the extreme positive to the extreme negative.
Without a Karmic Debt, a person is free to pick the position on
the continuum where he chooses to express his energies. With
the Debt, he is forced to start at the negative extreme. If he is
willing to understand the Debt, accept the burden and exert
the effort, he can move to a more positive expression of the
energy. In that sense, the Karmic Debt might be thought of as a
symbol of reconstruction or regeneration.
The Debt is usually apparent to the individual, although he
will often feel victimized by fate rather than responsible for the
special experiences he has to face. If the delineation establishes
the Debt as an energy which can be transformed by effort and
awareness, the reading will serve an important end.
With a Karmic Debt present, there is no way to determine if
or when the individual will learn to overcome the substantial
obstacles to his progress. Few people prevail over the impedi-
. ments by young adulthood. Many people (possibly most people)
are still struggling with the negative emphasis of the Karmic
Debt up to the age of forty. Until the handicaps are controlled,
it's difficult to reach anywhere riear the full positive potential.
With a Debt present, the positive potential can be thought of as
a goal to be reached when the blockages are gone.
Ted, for instance, with a 19/1 Expression, is likely to be so
concerned with his own needs or so dependent on others that he
will have difficulty approaching his executive and administrative capabilities for achievement and financial reward. Only
when the negative 19/1 is understood and overcome can the
. positive 1 potential develop.
The effect of the Karmic Debt is very strong when the Life
CHAPTER 11: THE KARMIC DEBTS
Path or Expression is involved, less powerful with the Soul
Urge, and weaker still with the Birthday.
Many people, when given a reading, tend to concentrate on
the negative aspects of the delineation. The Karmic Debt is
probably the most negative information you are transmitting
and must be handled with extreme sensitivity. Don't gloss over
the Karmic Debt because it is difficult to express positively.
Rather, work on your delineation technique so that your description of the Debt will contribute to an accurate portrayal of
the individual's basic structure and be helpful to him in understanding his impediments and learning to overcome them.
Here's an example of the portion of a delineation expressing
the Karmic Debt of Pierce, age 30, who has a 13/4 Expression.
You'll see how the delineation expresses the Debt's powerful influence. There are five steps involved:
STEP A
An explanation that the positive potential can be fully developed only when the obstacles are overcome.
The configuration of your chart indicates that,
while you have some strong positive potential
which can be developed, you started out in life
with some blockages which must be overcome
before-y0u> can make the most of the positive
energy. I can't tell whether you've already overcome the obstacles-some people manage early
in life, others spen-d a good number of years struggling with the impediments.
STEPB
A description of the general effect of the Karmic Debt.
From CHART 7: THE KARMIC DEBT, 13/4 general description in the
top row.
You can't move ahead constructively unless you've
overcome your obstinacy and dogmatism. You
may feel limited and restricted, but if you rationalize your situation, it's difficult to change to a
more productive path. You must learn to accept
the responsibiHty for the predicaments in which
you find yourself.
Sample
portion of a
delineation
123
• •• _. J
124
.. ," ).
PART Ill: THE MODIFIERS
In order to approach your positive potential, you
must learn to work hard, often far harder than your
share a good part of the time. You must apply
yourself to the work at hand, be aware of the
larger picture while still completing all the details.
You have to learn to accept the stringent limitations produced by the inordinate work load. If
you choose to be lazy, indifferent, negative, or involved with trivia, the problems are likely to be
magnified.
STEP C
A description of the specific effect of the Debt on the involved
core element. This step is omitted for the Birthday since the
specific effect is already included in the Birthday characteristics.
From CHART 7: THE KARMIC DEBT. 13/4 Expression description in
the third row.
You tend to use your abilities doggedly in a rigid,
one-track direction. The intensity of your drive
may work to your advantage but the effect of this
drive is likely to be negated unless you widen your
vision.
StEPD
.. A description of the negative characteristics of the core element .
In a typical delineation, the negative traits are expressed as pit-
. falls to be avoided. With a Karmic Debt present, the negative
characteristics are the probable traits expressed until such time
as the handicaps are overridden. Be sure to include approaches
to alleviate the expressed difficulties.
From CHART 3: THE EXPRESSION. The description of the negative
characteristics of the 4 Expression are in the bottom row.
You're likely to be frustrated by your feelings of
limitation or restriction, though often of your own
making or existing only in your imagination. You
have to learn to see what limitations you yourself
are bringing to a situation.
Your fixed approach works against you. You must
learn to be more adaptable and flexible.
You're likely to have strong likes and dislikes. Until they're moderated, they'll be stumbling blocks.
~.
CHAPTER 11: THE KARMIC DEBTS
Your tendency to be bossy, dominant and excessively disciplinarian will probably irritate others.
You have to learn to get on better with family and
friends or be prepared for much struggle.
You tend to concentrate on the details to the exclusion of the big picture. Unless you can see the
forest instead of the trees, you're working against
your best interests.
STEPE
If the subject accepts reincarnation, you may want to conclude
by specifically mentioning the Karmic Debt.
From CHART 7: THE KARMIC DEBT. 13/4 general description in
top row.
Your requirement of hard work and your tendency
to rigidity are payments to balance a karmic debt
developed from a lack of application to work in a
previous life.
There's some repetition here, just like there was in the core
synthesis. Don't worry about it. We're learning some basic
principles. In Part IV, Volume 2, we'll polish up the delineation
and dispense with the "repetition.
The energies should be delineated so th~t the subject can
help his development by (a) accepting certain consequences of
the energy as a part of his life, and (b) learning to transform
negative into positive potential.
You'll find that about half of your subjects will have a Karmic Debt. Ten percent or so of my readings have involved people with two Karmic Debts. There are even a few people with
more than two, but they are r.are.
If there's more than one Debt, it is handled in the same manner except that more than one element is modified. If there's a
multiple Debt involving the same number (as with a 1911 Expression and a 1911 Soul Urge), the effect of the Karmic Debt
permeates the core along with the negative vibrations of the
doubled number. Make sure to express this difficult combination so that the forces can be used constructively.
The
significance
of the
number of
Karmic
Debts
125
.:. "
,
126 PART HI: THE MODIFIERS
An example There's no question that a person's life shows the significant
effect of a Karmic Debt. It is clear, though, that a knowledge
and acceptance of a Debt will add to the subject's constructive
development.
Catherine, for example, is a woman in her late twenties with
a 16/7 Life Path and a 16/7 Expression. SEVENTY PERCENT
OF HER CORE ENERGY IS (a) KARMIC AS WELL AS
(b) A REPEATED NUMBER.' Her life, as she described it to
me, had been a succession of broken romances and continued
job changes. Much of her energy had been spent in efforts to
maintain a long relation or a job she liked, but her efforts had
proved in vain. A year before her reading, she had recognized
that she was not fated to have an ongoing romance or a continuing position. Acceptance of this transient state of affairs
had considerably improved her life. The impermanence continued, but now she enjoyed her pleasures when they occurred
rather than being caught up in her fear of their loss. When I explained the nature of her Karmic Debt, she was pleased that
she had already, on her own, understood the situation. Myexplanation served as a reminder of her basic structure and a
reinforcement to her positive attitude.
Catherine, like anyone with a Karmic Debt to repay, found
her life substantially affected, but she had used her own efforts,
as anyone can if they so desire, to exchange the negativity for a
growing life.
Hilde Agatha Parsons (page 93 in Chapter 9) has a 7 Life
Path and a 7 Expression. You may want to compare the effects
.:" l:- ·of the 7·7 energy in her reading with the effects noted here
with Catherine's 16/7·16/7.
.. ~fHal Allen's . At the end of each chapter dealing with modifiers, we'll ex- ~~:,organization amine the effect of each modifier on Hal Allen, our fictitious {~sheet subject from Chapter 7. In Chapter 21, we'll combine all of .~Hal's modifiers with his core synthesis to produce a complete (if
still too wordy) character delineation. -:Hal has a 14/5 Karmic Debt associated with his Life Path, as ~~mentioned at the beginning of the chapter. His Karmic Debt is :s:5xplaced in the 5 modifier row on the organization sheet-in the ~lEnegative energy column (Figure 11-1 on page 127). t1I~~;:c,,~Hal Allen's In Hal Allen's complete delineation in Chapter 21, the 14/5
delineation Karmic Debt strongly modifies the description of Hal's 5 Life
Path.
CHAPTER 11: THE KARMIC DEBTS
+
0
1
2
---I ~ 3 ~
3
II ~
----t ~ 5 @j) 14/5~ 5
----t 6 @; 6
7
8
----II ~ 9 ® 9
11
22
.. (- ).
DIR.CTlNG
MODlPl.RS
Figure 11-1
Organization Sheet with Karmic Debt added
Step 6, page 200, expresses the characteristics of the 5 Life Path.
Here, the Karmic Debt adds:
STEP A. An explanation that the positive potential can be fully developed only when the obstacles are overcome.
Some of the characteristics are revised because bf the
presence of the Debt.
Step 8, page 203, discusses the negative expression of the 5 Life
Path. Here, the Karmic Debt adds:
STEP B. Changes in the negative expression due to the general
effect of the Karmic Debt.
127
]
"
~'
128 PAR'l' Ill: THE MODIFlERS
STEP C. Changes in the negative expression due to the specific
effect of the Debt on the Life Path.
STEP D. Description of the negative characteristics as probable traits expressed until handicaps are overridden.
STEP E. Mention of the Karmic Debt in relation to reincarnation.
CHAPTER 12: THE INTENSITY TABLE 129
CHAPTER 12
STRONG POSITIVE AND
NEGATIVE CHARACTERISTICS:
THE INTENSITY TABLE
THE KARMIC LESSONS
THE INTENSITY POINTS ,/
THE PRIME INTENSIFIER
THE INTENSITY J' ABLE lS A TABLE DERIVED FROM Definitions
THE LETTERSrTN THE NAME. IT INDICATES CHARAC- and
TERISTICS, IN ADDITION TO THE CORE CHARACTER- calculations
ISTICS, WHICH ARE OF ABOVE AVERAGE OR BELOW
AVERAGE INTENSITY.
When calculating the Expression, the number value of each
letter is written below the letter. The Intensity Table (sometimes called the Inclusion Table) simply sums up how many 1's,
2's, 3's, etc. are present in the name.
We'll use Paul McCartney's birthname as an example:
J AMES PAUL McCARTNEY
11451 7133 433192557
Total the quantity of each number and you have his Intensity
Table:
five 1's no 6 •
one 2 two 7's
four 3's no 8 •
two 4's one 9
three 5's
130 PART III: THE MODIFIERS
For McCartney, the lack of 6 and 8 is emphasized by arrows
placed to the right of the table.
When a number is lacking, that lack indicates the presence of
a Karmic Lesson. A KARMIC LESSON IS A MODIFIER
INDICATING POTENTIAL WEAKNESSES, DIFFICULTIES OR OBSTACLES BECAUSE THE MODIFIER EN- ~
ERGY HAS NOT BEEN EXPERIENCED IN PAST LIVES.
A Karmic Lesson is much less insistent than a Karmic Debt, but
is still an important modifier.
In an average Intensity Table, the numbers would appear in
these quantities:
Average Quantity Number
three 1
one 2
one, two 3
one 4
three, four, five 5
one, two 6
zero, one 7
one 8
three 9
Whenever the quantity of a number exceeds or falls below
the average, an Intensity Point is established. AN INTENSITY
POINT IS A MODIFIER INDICATING CHARACTERISTICS OF ABOVE AVERAGE OR BELOW AVERAGE IN-
,TENSITY. It's an important modifier.
Comparing McCartney's table to the average table, McCartney has the following Intensity Points (Modifier numbers which
have been established as Karmic Lessons are not duplicated as
Intensity Points):
five 1's exceed the average
four 3's exceed the average
two 4's exceed the average
two 7's exceed the average
one 9 falls below the average
THE PRIME INTENSIFIER, THE INTENSITY POINT APPEARING IN THE LARGEST QUANTITY, INDICATES
STRONG AND OBVIOUS CHARACTERISTICS. It's an
important modifier.
There's an exception to be noted here. The 5 often appears in
great profusion in the Intensity Table-remember that even
five 5's is just an average quantity. Use the 5 as a Prime Intensifier only if (a) there are more 5's than any other number, and
(b) there are six or more 5's.
-
" 'If
""
~~ , ',;
'~ .~.
CHAPTER 12: THE INTENSITY TABLE
In Paul McCartney's Intensity Table, there are only three
5's. There are five 1's, and the 1 is his Prime Intensifier.
In many charts, two or more numbers appear in the greatest
quantity. If two numbers appear in greatest quantity, there are
two Prime Intensifiers. (Again, the 5 would be a Prime Intensifier here only if there were six or more 5's.) If more than two
numbers appear in greatest quantity, the energy is too diffused
and there is no Prime Intensifier.
The Intensity Table often yields many modifiers. In Paul
McCartney's example, we find eight modifiers:
Karmic Lessons-6, 8
Intensity Points-five 1's, four 3's, two 4's;
two 7's, one 9
Prime Intensifier-1
CHART 8: THE INTENSITY TABLE on page 312 describes the
modifiers derived from the Intensity Table. The average quantity of 1's, 2's, etc. is shown in the third row. Above the
average, in the second row, are descriptions of Intensity Points
where the quantity exceeds the average. As you can see, there
are usually two descriptions for each modifier number. One
description, somewhat above average quantity, usually indicates strong positive traits associated with the particular
modifier energy, along with sQme negative characteristics requiring work- The second description, with an even greater
than average quantity? indicates the very strong positive traits
along with very strong negative traits brought about by the excess of modifier energy.
The top row describes the characteristics of the Prime Intensifier. The traits have already been noted in the row below,
but the Prime Intensifier indicates that these particular qualities are likely to form a very strong and obvious part of the
personality.
Just as the rows above the average quantity describe an excess of modifier energy, the rows below describe a lack of
energy. In the fourth row, are descriptions of the Intensity
Points where the quantity is less than average.
These Intensity Points always. describe weaknesses or difficulties.
The bottom two rows discuss the Karmic Lessons. If there is
a lack of a number in a name and that number is not one of the
core elements, the description of the Karmic Lesson will be
found in the bottom row. If there is a lack of a number in a
Chart 8:
The Intensity
Table
131
~'. :"
:~ ,1
132
Commentary:
Intensity
Points
PART Ill: THE MODIFIERS
name and that number is one of the core elements, this
Modified Karmic Lesson is described in the second row from
the bottom. Both a Karmic Lesson and a Modified Karmic
Lesson indicate a significant coloration of the core, but the intensity of the lesson is somewhat mitigated with the Modified
Karmic Lesson because of the energy available in the core.
If there's an average quantity of a number, the traits connected with that number are balanced, at least from the point
of view of the Intensity Table. You'll find many names where
the quantity is never far from the average. In this common
case, there is a relatively subtle emphasis on the characteristics
described by the Intensity Points. The more significant traits
are the ones where the quantity of the number diverges sharply
from the average.
An over-excess of 5, 7, or 8 will tend to give added impetus
primarily to the positive traits associated with the modifier
energies. Too many 3's or 4's will produce stress on both
positive and negative traits. But too many 1's, 2's, 6's or 9's will
overemphasize the negative side of the energies ..
Imagine a person with six 3's, far more than the average one
or two. It's true that there may be strong artistic talents expressed, but there may also be a tendency to be self-centered
and selfish, scattering energies or acting in an immoderate
manner (from the 3 page, second row, of Chart 8). If the core
already indicates a potential for self-centeredness with strong 1,
4 or 8 energy, this Intensity Point will add to the stress on this
characteristic. If, on the other hand, the core, with strong 2,6,
or 9 energy, indicates a giving, loving person, we would expect
the addition of the six 3's to describe a giving, loving person
who is, at times, unexpectedly selfish or extravagant.
The strength of the divergence is also significant when there's
a smaller quantity than average. 5 is usually present in a larger
quantity than other numbers. 9 is often found in above average
quantity. And 1 is generally present in average or slightly below average quantity (two or three). When 1, 5 or 9 is present
in less than average quantity, a significant disbalance is being
described. If there's only one 1 or one 5 or one 9, the delineation will be strongly affected.
The average quantity is not proportional to the number of
letters in the name. Six 3's or seven 1's are just as significant in a
very long as in a very short name. If we find
one 1 or five or more 1's
four or more 2's
four or more 3's
CHAPTER 12: THE INTENSITY TABLE
four or more 4's
one 5 or seven or more 5's
four or more 6's
three or more 7's
three or more 8's
one 9 or five or more 9's
we can be sure that those Intensity Points will sharply alter the
core description.
The significance of the Prime Intensifier is similarly related
to the divergence from the average. If the Prime Intensifier is,
for example, four 1's (one above average), the person will find
it important to follow his own bent and make sure his needs are
met (from the 1 page, top row, of Chart 8), but the emphasis
on this characteristic is not likely to be particularly intense.
But, suppose the person has seven 1's. You can be sure that this
person will work long and hard at meeting his personal needs.
If the core indicates the possibility of strong, self-centered
energies (1,4, or 8 stressed), you can be sure that the person will
appear as a dominating, even bullying sort. If, on the other
hand, the core describes a more giving person (2,6 or 9 emphasized), the individual is likely to have less personal needs, but
will, nevertheless, be sure to get those needs met. There's likely
to be a core of iron that becomes most obvious at times when
those limited needs are not being satisfied. If there's a conflict
of core energies-:-r--such as 6 energy toward responsibility conflicting with 5 energy toward freedom-the person's discontent
and frustration at meeting his confusing needs will be most
apparent.
The Karmic Lesson represents energy to which a person has
not been exposed in previous lifetimes. Whether the potential
was purposely avoided or whether circumstances prevented the
particular potential from surfacing is not clear, but the lack of
exposure to the energy will make a strong mark on the subject
in this lifetime.
Presence of a Karmic Lesson indicates the presence of certain
types of situations and the necessity to use specific energies to
deal with these situations. If there's a Karmic Lesson, there is
no question that the situations will play an important part in
the life. But the determination of whether the subject has the
required energies or must develop them poses a more difficult
question. Examination of the core and the other modifiers,
often, but not always, provides some clues.
Commentary:
Prime
Intensifier
Commentary:
Karmic
Lessons
133
134
Commentary:
Modified
Karmic
Lessons
Organization
sheet
PART III: THE MODIFIERS
For example, Irene with a 4 Karmic Lesson is likely to face
situations where an awareness of practicality, organization,
hard work and concern with detail is required. (See the 4 page,
bottom row, of Chart 8.) You can be sure that Irene is often going to be involved in experiences where she must work slowly,
surely, consistently; must start at the foundation and build
with care, with concern for the details and patience to see the
experiences through to completion.
If Irene's core and other modifiers primarily emphasize
freedom and versatility, she will start out in life feeling
restricted by situations demanding patient and careful attention to detail. The experiences will require energies which she is
unable to give and her development will be impeded as she
struggles to develop the requisite energies. When Irene has
learned her lesson and developed the required energies, the
same or similar situations are still likely to be important in her
life. Her learned ability to handle the situations, however, will
not make them appear as obstacles. Rather, these experiences
will now further her ability to grow and develop.
If Irene has a 4 Karmic Lesson, and the core and modifiers
indicate additional energies devoted to care, patience, hard
work as well as approximately equal energies devoted to
freedom and versatility, it isn't possible to state whether the
lesson poses an obstacle or not. You can only indicate the
presence of the related situations, but you can't. determine
whether Irene will use the energies to advantage.
If Irene has a 4 Karmic Lesson, but also has core and modifier energies emphasizing care, patience and hard work, she
will be born with the ability to handle the situations that will
. develop in that area, and her development will not be
impeded.
When the number of the Karmic Lesson also appears as a
core element, we have a Modified Karmic Lesson. The experiences related to the Karmic Lesson will be present, but there
will also be strong core energy available to deal with the experiences. The presence of a Modified Karmic Lesson with positive core potential indicates the innate ability to handle the
situations which arise. Only if the core energy is expressing
negatively (because of master numbers, doubled elements or
Karmic Debts) will the situations prove an obstacle.
The modifiers derived from the Intensity Table appear as follows on the organization sheet (Figure 12-1):
CHAPTER 12: THE INTENSITY TABLE
The Karmic Lesson(s) appear in the negative potential
column.
The Modified Karmic Lesson(s) appear in the negative
potential column.
The above-average Intensity Point(s) appear in the positive potential column.
The below-average Intensity Point(s) appear in the negative potential column.
The Prime Intensifier(s) appear in the positive potential
column.
Karm
Lesso
ic
ns
Modi fied
Karm
Lesso
ic
n
ge
Above
Avera
Inten
Points
sity
ge
Below
Avera
Intens
Point
Prime
Intens
ity
ifier
+
0
• 1 ~ • 2
3
• 4
51t
• 6
• 7
• 8
9
11
22
DIRECTINO
MODIFIERS
Figure 12-1
Organization Sheet with Intensity Table Modifiers shown
as Black Dots
135
136
Expressing
the Intensity
Table
modifiers in
delineation
Special
cases
PART III: THE MODIFIERS
The modifiers discussed in this chapter are important, but
they rarely stand out in a reading. Usually, the effect of these
modifiers is blended with the effect of other modifiers to subtly
color the basic picture presented by the core. There are two
common instances where the effect of the modifiers is strongly
expressed:
a. When the Karmic Lesson indicates a situation which is
distinctly conflicted with the other energies in the chart.
b. When an above average Intensity Point diverges greatly
from the average.
Occasionally, you'll meet an individual with no Karmic
Lessons. This "old soul" has been reincarnated many times and
has been exposed to all the lessons often enough to have some
awareness of all of them. Don't expect this person to have little
difficulty in life. Rather, expect that this person, particularly
on reaching maturity, is likely to present a well-balanced personality and a depth of understanding.
Note this lack of Karmic Lessons at the bottom of the organization sheet (Figure 12-2 on page 137). Be sure to emphasize
this extremely positive characteristic in the delineation.
The old souls are rare-probably some five percent of the
populace. Most people have one or two Karmic Lessons. Three
Karmic Lessons aren't even that far out of the ordinary. But if
you find a subject with jour or more Karmic Lessons, you are
.. dealing with an individual who has not been exposed to about
half of the energies that are available. A significant part of this
. individual's life will be used in coming to grips with these
myriad lessons. Even if the person has some strong positive core
or modifier energies which help with some of the lessons, he is
still likely to feel considerably blocked.
When there are four or more Karmic Lessons, note this at the
bottom of the organization sheet (Figure 12-3 on page 138) and
express the resultant negative coloration in as constructive a
manner as possible.
Only rarely will you find a 1, 5 or 9 Karmic Lesson. The
energies denoted by the 1, 5 or 9 are quite common, and the
lack of that energy provides a very significant coloration-just
a little weaker than a Karmic Debt. The subject with this lack
has an obstacle to overcome that is likely to be one of the important parameters in the character development.
CHAPTER 12: THE 1NTENS1Tr TABLE
+
0
1
2
3
" 5
6
7
8
9
11
22
>
DIRECnNG
MODIPIERS
No Karmic Lessons ~
~
137
~~
:.
J
~ ~
~ g~
~
"
~
~ ~ i~
,~
~ §F;
~ ,Ii
"
:~ :g
..
:;
~j i
~ ~
~ ~ ,:
.,
~
r2
.~:
~
'~
:~\
:~
"
,
(t
"
~ f-
~i
~
Figure 12-2 w: Organization Sheet with No Karmic Lessons
Almost as rare as old souls are individuals who have at least Rarity
one 7 in their name. Perhaps ten percent of people will not of the 7
have a 7 Karmic Lesson, indicating that this ten percent is more
spiritually evolved than those lacking the 7. In our materialistic society, the qualities missing because of the lack of the 7
tend to be thought of as of little consequence, certainly of less
consequence than the lack of any other number. If there is a 7
Karmic Lesson and no 7 core element or other 7 modifier, you
may want to ignore the 7 Karmic Lesson altogether in the
delineation. That isn't true of any other number.
138 PART III: THE MODIFIERS
•
0
1
2
3
"
5
6
7
8
9
11
22 .. ( ).
DIR.cnNGI
~ ~~ MOOI ... __
Four Karmic Lessons ~
Figure 12-3
Organization Sheet with Four Karmic Lessons
Hal Allen's We'll calculate the Intensity Table for Hal Allen:
calculation HARLAN WILLIAM ALLEN
819315 5933914 1 3355
four I's
no 2 • no 6 •
five 3's no 7 •
one 4 one 8
four 5's three 9's
CHAPTER 12: THE INTENSITY TABLE
From the Intensity Table, we find six modifiers:
four 1's Intensity Point
2 Karmic Lesson
five 3's Intensity Point
3 Prime Intensifier
6 Modified Karmic Lesson
7 Karmic Lesson
For Hal, the organization sheet (Figure 12-4) suddenly is
bulging with data. I don't think of Hal's Intensity Table as par-
•
Five 3's
3 Prime
Intensifier
2 Karmi; Lesson
6
3
14/5
Hal Allen's
organization
sheet and
delineation
---I ~5 A ~-I---'J
---I ~ 6 6 Modified L (' ..... KarmicL~ 6
7 Karmic Lesson -7- . .> [z (7)
8
---I ~9 ® 9
11
22
Figure 12-4
Organization Sheet with Intensity Table MQdijiers
139
140
.:" lPART III: THE MODIFIERS
ticularly disbalanced, but there are enough divergences from
the average to add a substantial number of modifiers. In many
delineations, a better balanced Intensity Table might add only
two or three modifiers rather than the six added here.
Hal's added modifiers are not of equal importance. Let's
discuss the added modifier energies in relation to the related
core energies shown in the right-hand column. (This column,
you'll remember, lists the energy group with which each energy
is identified for the purposes of this delineation, as determined
by the table on-page Ill.)
With the 5 Life Path energy, we include the delineation of
the 1 Intensity Point. Four 1's is only one above average, but
this is one of the cases where the above-average energy has a
strong negative cast. Since the Life Path energy is the most potent energy, we are adding an important coloration. The Life
Path energy, devoted to learning freedom and expressing versatility (Chart 2, 5 Life Path) has already been strongly colored
by difficulties in learning to use freedom constructively (Chart
7, 14/5 Karmic Debt) and now it is qualified by the tendency to
act in a self-centered and dominating way (Chart 8, four 1's Intensity Point). The fun that often is associated with a 5 Life
Path seems quite different now that some colorations are
added. Hal can overcome the obstacles and go on to the ultimate delight of using the positive potential of the 5 energy, but,
unless he has some offsetting energies (which, as we proceed
with the modifiers, we'll find he doesn't), he probably has a
way to go to overcome the problem areas. (See Step 8, page 203
of HaFs delineation.)
With the 6 Expression energy, we include the delineation of
the 2 Karmic Lesson and the 6 Modified Karmic Lesson. We
are adding two Karmic Lessons to the second most potent
energy-obviously an important added coloration. Because of
-his 6 Expression, Hal tends to be responsible, helpful, loving
and generous (Chart 8, 6 Expression). We can now expect that
-he will be called on to carry a far heavier share of responsibility
than average (Chart 8, 6 Modified Karmic Lesson), but he can
certainly accomplish this with the 6 Expression energy. In addition, Hal is likely to find himself in situations where sensitivity,
consideration for others, and awareness of detail are required
(Chart 8, 2 Karmic Lesson). With both 6 and 9 core energies, I
would expect Hal to be capable of handling these types of situations. (See Step 13, page 208, for the description of both
lessons.)
(The Life Path modifiers have added a strong negative cast to
the Life Path energy, but the Expression modifiers have only
indicated that Hal will get many opportunities to use the abilities he undoubtedly possesses. You might want to contemplate
CHAPTER 12: THE INTENSITl' TABLE
the divergence of the Life Path energy and the Expression
energy. How is Hal going to handle that?)
With the 9 Soul Urge energy, we have, as yet, no modifiers.
We cannot add any coloration to the core description.
With the 3 Birthday energy, we include the delineation of
the five 3's Intensity Point and the 3 Prime Intensifier. The 3
Birthday energy is the least potent of the core energies, but five
3's represent a major divergence from the average of one or
two. These modifiers, at first glance, seem to represent an important coloration of only a small part of Hal's total energy.
Let's look at that more closely. From Chart 5, 12 Birthday,
we know that Hal is sensitive and emotional with creative ability. These same potentials are displayed in the 6 Expression
energy as well as the 9 Soul Urge energy. Three of the four core
elements verify Harlan's creative potential. This potential is not
a small part of his total energy, but rather an extremely significant portion of that energy.
Now, add the data from the modifiers. We see strong artistic
talent, excellent imagination, strong capability with words
(Chart 8, five 3's Intensity Point) and these qualities are likely
to be most obvious (Chart 8, Prime Intensifier 3). The major
divergence from average of the Intensity Point produces an important coloration of some of Hal's major potential. (See Step 3,
page 199 for the effect of the two 3 modifiers. Note how strongly the characteristics are emphasized.)
The 7 Karmic Lesson does not group with any of the core
energies and would be treated as a miscellaneous energy.
(Because it's a miscellaneous energy in this delineation, the 7 in
the right-hand column of the organization sheet is shown in
parentheses). With our current data (and even when we've
looked at all the modifiers) this 7 Karmic Lesson is the only expression of 7 energy. Since the 7 Karmic Lesson need be discussed only when other 7 energy is available, we can ignore it
in this delineation.
141
CHAPTER 13: SUB-ELEMENTS OF THE CORE
CHAPTER 13
BEGINNING OBSTACLES:
THE SUB-ELEMENTS
OF THE CORE
If a person was born on March 13, 1952, the Life Path Definition
calculation would, of course, look like this:
March 13, 1952 . ~
3 + 4 + 8 = 15 =@
The 6 Life Path is the core element.
THE 3, 4, AND 8 ARE SUB-ELEMENTS. The sub-elements
sometimes introduce an important modifier. ,. '- .. ('.).
Let's study a fictitious individual born on
July 4, 1950
7 +~+ 6 17 =(@)
with the name of:
1 + 7 + (20) 2 = 10 = CD ------- ---~~------
1 1 6
CARL HAROLD
3193 819634
(16) 7 + (31) 4
9 6 5
CHRISTOPHER
38991267859
+ (67) (13) 4 = 15 =@J
Carl's chart was constructed to illustrate two groupings of
sub-elements forming two important modifiers.
Example
i~;.~143 ~is;.-
~~Sig~~~1!a~~ " :i
"i
,~~ i
~l ::1~~ ~.~ ~! "~!. ~ t1
;<
~~. "
~ ~~: (i
r}
~~
~
~
~ ~~ ;r.:
'}
'.";
i~ ~: ,;
~ ,.:
~~
~, ~: ~ ~
" ~:
t
'<
.~
.,
~c
~ 0' s?-
;"
~
~
:f:
:
~~
i
o~
"
,;,":
144
Sub-element
and core
element with
same number
PART III: THE MODIFIERS
IF A SUB-ELEMENT IS THE SAME NUMBER AS THE
CORE ELEMENT, THE SUBJECT WILL PROBABLY
START OUT IN LIFE EXPRESSING ONE (OR BOTH)
NEGATIVE EXTREMES OF THE POTENTIAL INSTEAD
OF THE POSITIVE POTENTIAL:
1. USING THE ENERGY SO EXCLUSIVELY THAT IT
BECOMES PART OF A DISBALANCED APPROACH.
POSITIVE POTENTIAL MA Y BE EXPRESSED AT THE
SAME TIME.
2. ALMOST COMPLETELY IGNORING THE POTENTIAL.
This is, of course, similar to the doubled core elements we
discussed in Chapter 9. But consider this:
If the Birthday (ten percent) and the Soul Urge (twenty
percent) have the same number, thirty percent of the
core energy is doubled.
If the Life Path (forty percent) and the Expression (thirty percent) have the same number, seventy percent of
the core energy is doubled.
With a doubled core element, thirty to seventy percent of the
core energy is affected.
Here we're dealing with only one element, so the effect tends
to be less potent.
If the Soul Urge is involved, twenty percent of the core
·energy is doubled.
If the Expression is involved, thirty percent of the core
energy is doubled.
If the Life Path is involved, forty percent of the core
energy is doubled.
(The Birthday isn't included here since it has no subelements.)
With an element and a sub-element doubled, twenty to forty
percent of the core energy is affected. Although this is usually
less than the doubled core element, you can see that, at times,
it may be extremely significant.
In Chapter 9, dealing with doubled core elements, two
elements were involved and a substantial part of the delineation was revised to show the negative impact. Here, we're dealing with only one element and less potent energy. Revise the
. portion of the delineation dealing with that element alone ..
In Carl's chart at the beginning of the chapter, there is a 1
sub-element along with the 1 Soul Urge. Carl will probably
CHAPTER 13: SUB-ELEMENTS OF THE CORE
start out in life expressing one (or both) negative extremes of
the 1·1 energy.
From CHART 6: THE ASPECTS, we find that 1·1 is usually very
discordant, with:
Overemphasis on self and own needs. Little concern for
others
or
Timid, afraid to stand on own two feet. Afraid of standing up for self. -
In Carl's example, the negative 1·1 energy affects the
description of the various parts of the Soul Urge alone:
Step 15. Motives of the Soul Urge.
Step 21. Positive attitudes of the Soul Urge.
Step 22. Negative attitudes of the Soul Urge.
The description in each of these steps will be modified by the
1·1 description from Chart 6. The delineation would indicate
that the positive potential can be well-expressed only when the
obstacles-the negative potential- have been overcome. Like
the repeated core elements, progress on the obstacles is usually
significant between ages twenty and forty. If, as in this case,
Carl is in his thirties, the delineation would be written assuming he's made ~ome progress against the obstacles. If Carl was
under twenty, the delineation would be written assuming that
he's in the middle of the struggle to overcome these obstacles.
By using the 1·1 only"as a modifier of the specifically affected
element (and-no(when the element is in aspect with another
element), the modifier effect is delineated in proper proportion
to its effect on the individual's potential.
The delineation is similar if two, three (or four) sub-elements
have the same number as the core element.
IF TWO SUB-ELEMENTS HAVE THE SAME NUMBER,
THE SUBJECT WILL PROBABLY START OUT IN LIFE
EXPRESSING ONE (OR BOTH) NEGATIVE EXTREMES
OF THE POTENTIAL:
1. USING THE ENERGY SO EXCLUSIVELY THAT IT
BECOMES PART OF A DISBALANCED APPROACH.
2. ALMOST COMPLETELY IGNORING THE POTENTIAL.
This grouping is considerably less potent than the first one.
Again, progress is usually made on the impediments between
ages twenty and forty.
Two subelements
with same
number
145
146
.:" :-
Hal Allen's
organization
sheet and
delineation
PART Ill: THE MODIFIERS
In the delineation, the negative extremes would be described by the doubled number aspect (CHART 6: THE ASPECTS).
(For the purposes of this modifier, the Birthday is considered a
sub-element of the Life Path.)
In Carl's example, there are two 4 sub-elements as part of his
6 Expression. The delineation of this 4·4 modifier might read as
follows:
You probably started out in life feeling limited or
tied down, although the restrictions you felt may
have been of your own making or have sprung
from your imagination. The limitations are likely
to have been aggravated by your rigid attitudes,
your stubbornness, your obsession with system
and order or your concentration on details to the
exclusion of the larger picture (4·4 aspect from
CHART 6: THE ASPECTS).
You may, at that time in your life, also have run into problems because of your tendency, at times, to
be disorganized and irresponsible (4·4 aspect from
CHART 6: THE ASPECTS).
I suspect that, now that you're over thirty, you
may have changed at least some of. this early
behavior so that the limitations you once felt are
apt to be considerably reduced.
The delineation is similar if three (or four) sub-elements have
the same number.
What about Hal Allen?
May 12,
5 0
2
1 1
HARLAN
819315
(27) 9
1941 =9
+
6
(19) 1
9 91
WILLIAM
5911914
+ (34) 7
+ 6
1 5
ALLEN
13355
+ (17) 8
®
=24=@;
Hal has a 5 sub-element behind his 5 Life Path. It's shown in
the negative energy column on his organization sheet (Figure
CHAPTER 13: SUB-ELEMENTS OF THE CORE
•
0
1
Four l's 5
2 Karmic Lesson
2 6
Five 3's ~
---I ~3 3 Prime 3
Intensifier
II AL ~ -- ----l ~5 @) 14/5~U
@)'5 5
@; 6 Modified
----l ~6 Karmic Lesson 6
7 Karmic Lesson
7 (7)
8
----l ~9 ®
9
11
22
.. '- " .. DIRKCTINO
MODIFIERS
Figure 13-1
Organization Sheet with Doubled Elements, Sub-Elements
13-1 above). The description of the 5·5 negative potential
reiterates, to an extent, some of the traits associated with his
14/5 Karmic Debt. Since the Karmic Debt has already been so
strongly expressed in the delineation, there's no reason to repeat
the material. .
:-0:~147 ~~ittg":~;s~~~t~2~;;c~1.'"l~ ~ i£;~~~ ~t1'J
J'.~ '.:"
x
.~:~ .'0
:J
"
tIl'
,f'
). ~.~ .:.::
.;-..
~ .
. ,
~
"
~? ~. ;~
i1
~
~
" ,~.
;1'
~ >:
I~
~.
~: "
;:;.
",
~ ::
,'~
[
~:
~ ~
h!
':~
~~-
:::r
~
<;
~~
~ ~~£
)'
t~
~
.. ('
CHAPTER 14: THE CHALLENGE
CHAPTER 14
ANOTHER
BEGINNING OBSTACLE:
THE CHALLENGE
THE CHALLENGE IS AN OBSTACLE ENCOUNTERED Definition
IN THE EARLY YEARS OF LIFE, AT LEAST, DUE TO
THE EMPHASIS PLACED ON THE NEGATIVE EXTREME OF THE POTENTIAL. The Challenge is an important modifier.
The calculationrof tile Challenge is the only modifier cal- Calculation
culation involving subtraction. Always, of course, subtract
the smaller number from the larger. Before subtracting, reduce
a master number to a single digit.
For example:
April 16, 1958
4 7 5
7 - 4 = 3
7 - 5 = 2
3 - 2 = 1 Challenge
November 22, 1975
11 22 22
2 4 4
Subtract the month digit and the day
digit.
Subtract the day digit and the year
digit.
Subtract the two remaining numbers to
determine the Challenge.
Reduce the master numbers to single
digits.
149
150
Chart 9:
The
Challenge/
The Growth
Number
4-2 2
4-4 o
2-0 2 Challenge
PART Ill: THE MODIFIERS
Subtract the month digit and the day
digit.
Subtract the day digit and the year
digit.
Subtract the two remaining numbers to
determine the Challenge ..
The Challenges are described in the top row of CHART 9: THE
CHALLENGE/THE GROWTH NUMBER on page 326. There are no
Challenges for- 9, 11 or 22, but there is a 0 (zero) Challenge.
This is the only place in numerology in which the zero is found.
Commentary The 1 and 2 Challenges are most frequent, the 0 and 3 some-
,,(" .).
what less frequent, the 4 and 5 considerably less frequent. Very
occasionally, you'll find a 6, 7 or 8 Challenge, but they're
considerably more difficult than the others. The 7 Challenge,
in particular, may have a substantial impact and needs much
work to be overcome.
And overcome is the right verb to apply to all the Challenges-or more correctly, converting the negative emphasis of
the early years to positive potential. .
The Challenge represents experiences which are likely to
occur frequently in the life. In the beginning years, just about
everyone approaches these situations negatively. By using the
willpower, an individual can learn how to deal with the same
forces· in a constructive manner. The situations recur-but instead of representing obstacles, the situations provide potential
for positive growth and development .
.. Let's look at Lloyd, for instance. Like many of us, he has a 2
Challenge. As a child, Lloyd was timid and shy. His family,
. especially, could see that he had deep feelings, but they were
rarely expressed. As he moved into his teen years, Lloyd was
. close with only a handful of friends. He was sensitive to criticism, occasionally to the point of tears. It was often easier for
him to forego a social occasion than to deal with others who, in
fact or in his imagination, were unaware of his sensitivity.
Sometimes, when he felt ignored-and with his timidity, he
was often overlooked-the hurt would be extreme.
A perceptive high school teacher recognized Lloyd's writing
talents and encouraged him to develop this special ability.
Lloyd became one of the editors of the school literary magazine
and, in his senior year, won a city-wide award for his poetry.
Lloyd's peers began to observe his sensitivities and his ability to
use them to enlighten others. Receiving praise (instead of the
CHAPTER 14: THE CHALLENGE
criticism he so feared) allowed Lloyd to expand his writing
talents to express the deep feelings he had so long repressed.
The shy, reclusive child was becoming a confident and sensitive
young man.
Lloyd had enough willpower (along with some fortuitous circumstances) to change the negative emphasis of his Challenge
to a positive expression-with dramatic results. With the
Challenge, it's never clear at what age this shift will occur.
Most people begin to express constructively in their early teens,
others continue to emphasize the negative extreme into their
adult years.
You may find that the Challenge-with its two poles-may
be one of the more enlightening pieces of information in the
delineation. Most people will know exactly what you mean
when you describe the negative potential, but the possibilities
of the positive energy, available with only an effort of the will,
may never have crossed their minds. Since the Challenge situations tend to recur throughout the life-Lloyd, as an example,
will always find his sensitivity playing a vital role in his wellbeing or distress-the advantage of the conversion to the positive is obvious.
If the Challenge number is the same as any of the core ele- Special
ments, that element tends to be affected by the negative Chal- cases
lenge emphasis. This emphasis is substantially lighter and easier
to overcome than ... :he negativity -of a repeated core element or a
Karmic Debt, but the Challenge'S negativity may be more apparent in the life.
If the Challenge number is the same as a repeated core element or Karmic Debt, the Challenge adds its own burden to
the already significant negativity.
If the Challenge number is the same as a negative Intensity
Point or a Karmic Lesson, the life is likely to emphasize the
negative aspect of that continuum, particularly in the early
years.
The paragraphs describing the Challenge would be included
along with the descriptions of other modifiers with that same
modifier number. Since there's no way to determine when the
positive conversion takes place, the reading must express both
positive and negative as if either one is currently effective.
Expression
in
delineation
151
152
Hal Allen's
organization
sheet and
delineation
PART III: THE MOD1FIERS
Hal has a 1 Challenge which is placed in the negative energy
column on his organization sheet (Figure 14-1 below). Step 8 of
Hal's delineation, page 203, includes the effect of the Challenge
and deals with Hal's probable domination by others in his early
years. Study this step carefully to see how several modifiers are
blended.
----I
---.....
---j
---i
+
0 ~
1
Four 1's 1 Challenge '---
2
2 Karmic Lesson
Five 3's ~
~3 3 Prime
Intensifier
4
~ 5 @j) 14/5
@j)05
@; 6 Modified
~ 6 Karmic Lesson
7 Karmic Lesson
7
8
~9 ®
11
22
DIHKCTING
MODIPIKHS
Figure 14-1
Organization Sheet with Challenge
~
5
6
3
5
6
(7)
9
J
CHAPTER 15: THE GROWTH NUMBER
CHAPTER 15
A GUIDE TO GROWTH:
THE GROWTH NUMBER
THE GROWTH NUMBER DESCRIBES THE ENERGY
WHICH WILL ILLUMINATE THE ESSENCE OF THE
EXPERIENCES AND HELP EXPAND A PERSON'S DEVELOPMENT.
Definition
If we think of a strong Intensity Point as a potent supplier of Commentary
energy, the Growth Number, by contrast, is a poor energy supplier, supplying perhaps ten or twenty percent of the Intensity
Point potential. The Growth Number is an important modifier,
though, because its en~rgy, aloTJ,g with similar energy, points
the way to gtbwtH'and development.
If the Growth Number is matched by a core element or positive modifier (or by similar positive potential) and is not in conflict with other energy, the individual is likely to grow and
develop. If, for example, there's a 1 Growth Number along
with a 1 Expression and no energy tending to stifle independence or promote dominant traits, then the individual is
likely to use the 1 energy to expand his experiences.
If the Growth Number is matched by a core element or positive modifier (or by similar positive potential) but is in conflict
with other energy, the subject's use of his free will will determine whether he grows and develops. As an example, if there's
a 5 Growth Number along with a 5 Life Path and a 13/4
Expression, the individual will have to determine whether he
uses the positive potential and grows, or whether he succumbs
to the negative energy.
If the Growth Number is not matched by a core element
or positive modifier (or by similar positive potential), the
individual, particularly in the early years, may show little
development.
153
154
Calculation
PART 111: THE MODIFIERS
The Growth Number is the sum of the letters of the first
name, reduced to a single digit or master number. For instance:
ANNETTE
1555225 = 25
2+5 7 Growth Number
ADRIAN
149915 29
= 2+9 = 11 Growth Number
Chart 9: The Growth Numbers are described in the bottom row in
The CHART 9: THE CHALLENGE/THE GROWTH NUMBER on page 326.
Challenge/
The Growth
Number
Examples Suppose we look at Janet with a 5 Growth Number and the
following core:
4 Life Path
8 Expression
1 Soul Urge
7 Birthday
and modifiers similar to the core elements. Janet is likely to be
hard-pressed to grow and develop comfortably. The rigidity of
the 4 and 8 energies as well as the inward-turning 7 potential
will hardly work toward the versatility, adaptability and excitement defined by the 5 Growth Number. Only a small portion
of the 1 energy, the motivation to create and originate, tends in
the 5 direction. The delineation should stress the importance
of that part of Janet's Soul Urge potential in illuminating the
. depth of her experience. The reading should also explain how
the other energies will tend to block the experiences.
Lillie, on the other hand, has that same 5 Growth Number,
but her core has:
3 Life Path
5 Expression
22 Soul Urge
2 Birthday
and modifiers similar to the core elements. The 5 Expression, of
course, gives Lillie the ability to express the very energy the
. Growth Number is defining. And the 3 and 22 energy also have
CHAPTER 15: THE GROWTH NUMBER
an expansive potential. With this core, Lillie has a good chance
for development.
Don't misunderstand the relative importance of the Growth
Number and the Life Path. Although the Growth Number
describes the energy which helps expand a person's development, the development itself is along the Life Path.
In Janet's example, the energy related to her 5 Growth
Number will light the way along her 4 Life Path. Her ability to
be versatile and adaptable will help her with the hard work and
service she's likely to encounter. In Lillie's example, the 5
Growth Number delight in change and variety will help expand
Lillie's ability to express the joy of living-her 3 Life Path
lesson.
The
Growth
Number
and the
Life Path
Did you notice, in reading the descriptions of the Growth Special
Numbers on Chart 9, that 1 through 9 define energies with case
reasonable possibilities? And that 11 and 22 are significantly
more difficult? Only rarely will an individual have the potential to expand his life as defined by the master numbers. Unless
there's some strong 11 core or modifier energy to match the 11
Growth Number, you can be certain that growth along the 11
path will present some difficulty. Similarly, some strong 22
core or modlfier'~nergy would be needed for development with
a 22 Growth Number.
As in other master number cases, the lower level of these
energies may provide a m()re acceptable alternative. If 11 core
or modifier energy is available, give the subject the choice of
both the 11 and 2 Growth Number paths. If 11 energy isn't
available, the 2 Growth Number alone should be described.
Similarly, use the 22 and 4 Growth Number paths if 22 potential is available-only the 4 Growth Number if the 22 potential
is not.
The Growth Number is placed in the center column of the
organization sheet. Hal Allen, with a 9 Growth Number,
would now have an organization sheet as shown in Figure 15-1
on page 156.
Since Hal has a 6 Expression and a 9 Soul Urge, we'd cerHal Allen's
organization
sheet and
delineation
155
"~~~~~F~~~'I);;~B~~.L~.~:1: ...~ ~ ~~·1~l1-
"
., ~~ :t:,t~ ;.;
-' 5' i.
~~( :" ;i;
.J
~ ''::
'3-
':'
"
:~!
: ~ !'~
:~
~~. :~
I.,~
.,
I~ "
,\
~i
[;
~:
,,-,
,
~
~t
~;
~~.
:t
~.
~:
~~.
~
~~.
::;'
~~:
l
~t
j
~
156 PART III: THE MODIFIERS
tainly expect some positive energy to expand his experiences
in accordance with the 9 Growth Number description. See Step
15, page 211 of Hal's delineation, where his Growth Number is
described.
+
0
Four l's . 1 Challenge
1 5
2
2 Karmic Lesson
6
Five 3's W
---t ~3 3 Prime 3
Intensifier
II
~5 ® 14/5
---i @Jj'5 5
~ 6 @; 6 Modified
---i Karmic Lesson 6
7 Karmic Lesson
7 (7)
8 f\./': Y :::: ~
--I ~9 ® ,0 9 Growth 9
Number
11
22
DIR.cnNO
MODlPl.RS
Figure 15-1
Organization Sheet with Growth Number
'r
CHAPTER 16: THE MATURITY NUMBER
CHAPTER 16
A LATER LESSON
TO BE LEARNED:
THE MATURITY NUMBER
THE MATURITY NUMBER DESCRIBES A SUB-LESSON Definition
INTRODUCED AT MATURITY. If you think of the Life
Path, or main lesson, as a highway, the Maturity Number
represents a widening of the highway during the mature years.
The Maturity Number (or Power Number or Reality Number)
is often an important modifier._ "'- .. (' ).
The Maturity Number is the sum of the Life Path plus the Ex- Calculation
pression, reduced to a single digit or master number.
Evan has a Life Path of 7 and an Expression of 8.
7 + 8 15
1 + 5 = 6 Maturity Number
Richard has a Life Path of 2 and an Expression of 9.
2 + 9 = 11/2 Maturity Number
CHART 10: THE MATURITY NUMBER on page 340 describes
the different Maturity. Numbers. The first and second rows
delineate two different readings, depending on whether the
sub-lesson that's introduced is brand new or is related to
Chart 10:
The
Maturity
Number
~157 ~'~E~~;~~'1"Ia~~2~~n~!..:.'~"
11~~:~~:~ ,~ .t~q"
~~~: ,;
,;
:i
-,
: ..
• ,j
~ i
?
:t
';'1
.:c
~t l~
1$
~ a
f:
:,~
~,
~.
.:.,.
158 PART Ill: THE MODIFIERS
energies introduced at birth. (The bottom row will be discussed
later under Special Cases.)
First row The first row describes an individual with a Maturity Number that matches a core element, an Intensity Point or a Karmic
Lesson. Here, there's usually less strain than in the second row
descriptions where there is no matching energy. Robert, for instance, has a Maturity Number with the same number as the
Life Path. I think you can see that, at maturity, all that's happening is that Robert's Life Path lesson is being brought up for
reevaluation. All the Life Path traits have probably been used,
at least to some degree, in the years leading up to maturity.
These characteristics were probably used to make progress in
the lesson outlined by the Life Path and, of course, they're
available for continued use during the maturity reassessment.
In this example, then, Robert would basically be checking his
progress along the Life Path at maturity and making some adjustments, when necessary, to better assimilate the lesson he's
been working on all his life.
Let's suppose that the Maturity Number, instead of being the
same as the Life Path, is the same as the Expression, Soul Urge
or Birthday. Or that there's an above-average Intensity Point
with the same modifier number. Here, a new sub-lesson is being introduced by the Maturity Number, but the basic energy
to work on the new sub-lesson has been operating since birth.
That's certainly comfortable energy to have available. It's been
developing all these years and now it can be put to work in the
. service of the new sub-lesson. In this case, as in Robert's example in the last paragraph, the individual is essentially checking
his growth and making some adjustments-but he certainly
isn't being jolted by a completely new direction.
If the Maturity Number has the same modifier number as a
negative Intensity Point or Karmic Lesson, the individual has
been working, prior to maturity, to overcome the obstacles
presented. The introduction of the sub-lesson at maturity reemphasizes the progress (or lack of progress) made with this
energy.
Second row Suppose that the Maturity Number is not similar to any of
the core elements and doesn't have a matching Intensity Point
or Karmic Lesson. Sometime in mid-life, the individual will
. become aware of a new sub-lesson to be learned, a sub-lesson
which doesn't match any of the strong energies he's been
CHAPTER 16: THE MATURITY NUMBER
developing from birth. It's true that the sub-lesson brings some
new energies with it-the energies usually associated with the
modifier number. But these energies, compared to the birth
energies, are weakly expressed, and, being new to the individual, would take some assimilation before they are fully operational. This example, covered in the second row in Chart 10,
describes a Maturity Number that is an important modifier
indeed.
Here's Octavia, for instance, with an 11 Life Path, 6 Expression, 9 Soul Urge and 5 Birthday. Octavia has a great deal of
helping, loving energy (from 6 and 9) and a lot of idealistic and
spiritual energy (from the 11). She may well find her way as a
counselor, a teacher, a social worker, a numerologist or
astrologer-there are many possibilities here to make use of the
positive potential. At maturity, Octavia would become aware
of her 8 Maturity Number (11 + 6 = 17 1 + 7 = 8).
Here at mid-life, our helping, loving, idealistic, spiritual Octavia feels a need or desire to learn the satisfactions of the
material world and the power which comes with its mastery.
Her path through life probably doesn't feel like it widened
gradually-it's more like an abrupt U-turn.
Along with these material desires, Octavia is likely to feel the
stirrings of some new energy-in her case, some new 8 energy.
If we look at the characteristics of the 8 Life Path (second row
of CHART 2: THE LIFE PATH) we'll have a good picture of that
new energy. Octavia is likely, at maturity, to feel somewhat
more ambitious and self-confident than in her early years, a bit
more efficient and energetic, -too. She's becoming, possibly
through pairiliilpast experience, somewhat more realistic and
practical than is usual with an 11 Life Path. And she's starting
to be a bit more stubborn and rigid than she used to be, nota
bad trait for a person with the 6·9 tendency to be a doormat. As
you can imagine, this new energy feels considerably weaker
than the energy she's used all her life. Octavia is going to have
to move slowly, develop the energy and assimilate jt.
The Maturity Number sometimes manifests itself as the.slow
development of some newfound understanding, sometimes as a
dramatic awareness sparked by an unforeseen crisis. Development of the Maturity Number potential usually gives the individual better control of the life along with a sense of deeper
fulfillment.
Octavia may have done her good works, yet somehow, in the
back of her mind, always felt that her direction was largely dictated by the social work agencies and schools which employed
her. Her mature awareness of the material world will allow her
to develop better control of her life. More money and higher
status means she can, to a greater extent, pick and. choose the
159
160
The age for
applying the
Maturity
Number
PART III: THE MODIFIERS
precise work she wants to accomplish. This, in turn, is likely to
lead to more satisfaction. For Octavia, the Maturity Number
marks an important guidepost to a new direction-with probable difficulties and significant ultimate benefits.
The Maturity Number is the only modifier that doesn't start
operating at birth. It starts operating at maturity-but just
when does a person reach maturity? This is far more a philosophical or psychological question than a numerology question.
In my experience, a person's maturity seems directly related to
that person's commitment to growth. I've known a few individuals who showed conspicuous signs of maturity at thirty-five
or so, but I expect, for the majority of people, maturity is likely
to set in somewhere between forty and fifty. And some people,
by design (or is it lack of design?) don't seem to develop maturity no matter how long they live.
For numerology purposes, I wouldn't even mention the
Maturity Number in a delineation unless the subject is at least
in the thirties. From forty on, I would delineate the sub-lesson
in detail, particularly in those cases, like Octavia's, where new
energies are also introduced.
Special case: If there's a Karmic Debt behind the Maturity Number-13
Karmic D,eQt .. behind the 4, 14 behind the 5, 16 behind the 7, 19 behind the
I-the individual is apt to find obstacles in the sub-lesson
Special case:
master
numbers
. path. If we're dealing with a Maturity Number which doesn't
introduce new energy, the impediments are probably negative
developments of existing energies which are painfully highlighted at the mid-life reevaluation. If we're dealing with the
introduction of new energy, the blockages are likely to appear
as an integral part of the new sub-lesson. Sometimes, one of the
obstructions itself can signal the onset of the sub-lesson.
The obstacles are described in the bottom row of Chart 10.
They provide vital information for the delineation.
If the Maturity Number is a master number, the individual
has the choice of operating on the very difficult higher level or
the considerably easier lower level of that energy.
If there's no previous strong master number energy, it's ex-
.tremely difficult (it may feel impossible) to start working with
this high-level potential so late in life. In a delineation,. em-
CHAPTER 16: THE MATUR1T)' NUMBER
phasize the lower level sub-lesson and briefly mention the
higher sub-lesson in passing. Don't go further with the higher
level unless the subject indicates a particular interest in it.
If there is previous strong master number energy, it is, of
course, considerably easier to work with the higher level sublesson, particularly if the individual has already developed
some of his master number potential. In a reading, mention
both sub-lessons with equal emphasis and let the individual
make his own choice.
When there are repeated core elements, we're dealing with a
person likely to be struggling with negative potential-during
the early years, at the very least. We know, from Chapter 9,
that the negative potential is likely to be converted to positive
sometime between twenty and forty. Now, if there's a matching Maturity Number, we can expect the effect of its potential
to be felt sometime after thirty-five, quite possibly before the
negative energy is fully converted.
In this complex situation, the Maturity Number is likely to
introduce a sub-lesson which isn't new, but which is incompletely assimilated. In the delineation, the sub-lesson would be
described as a reevaluation of an existing lesson. We would indicate that the energies introduced at maturity are likely to give
positive impetus to previous negatively directed potential.
Blaine, with a 1 Life Path, a 1 Soul Urge-and a 1 Maturity
Number-is, at age thirty-five" likely to either overemphasize
himself and 'his 'own needs or be timid and afraid to stand up
for himself (1,1, CHART 6: THE ASPECTS). At maturity, he's likely
to reevaluate his progress toward independence, find that he's
either dominating or dependent (First row, 1 Maturity Number, Chart 10). Blaine may now begin to gain the awareness
and use of his inner strength, his leadership capability, his potential for accomplishment (1 characteristics, CHART 2: THE LIFE
PATH). The Maturity Number will tend to help him toward the
independence which may have proved elusive up to maturity.
Here's Stephen, age forty-three, with a 3 Maturity Number
and a 3 Soul Urge. The description of the effect of Stephen's
Maturity Number would, of course, be an example of the case
where no new energy is introduced.
In Step 15 of a delineation (from Chapter 7) the Soul Urge
motives are described .. You may remember that the motives remain the same irrespective of the other core elements.
Special case:
repeated core
element
Expression in
delineation
161
.,
162
Hal Allen's
organization
sheet and
delineation
PART Ill: THE MODIFIERS
Stephen's 3 Soul Urge motives (Top row, CHART 4: THE SOUL
URGE) might read as follows:
You are likely to want to express your delight in
life, your sense of joie de vivre. You probably want
an active social life with many close friends and
diverse activities. You're apt to want to express artistic talents, particularly your talent with words,
by speaking, writing, acting or singing. You want
your home and work environment to reflect the
beauty you enjoy creating.
From the first row of the 3 Maturity Number, CHART 10: THE
MATURITY NUMBER, we can add the following:
Now that you're in your early forties, I expect
you're going to run into some experiences that
may make you want to reevaluate how well you've
satisfied some of the desires just mentioned. When
you're with others, for instance, are you comfortable giving of yourself openly, warmly, spontaneously? Do you know how to thoroughly enjoy
yourself at social gatherings? And have you
learned to fully express the artistic and creative
side of your personality?
You may find, at this time in your life, that you
want to change some of your attitudes and actions
in order to give freer rein to your self-expression.
Hal Allen's Maturity Number introduces the complexity of
dealing with a master number. With a 5 Life Path and a 6 Expression, Hal would have an 11/2 Maturity Number. There's no
other 11 energy in his chart, so it would be difficult for him to
assimilate the new 11 sub-lesson at mid-life. His delineation
stresses the 2 sub-lesson (while only mentioning the new 11 sublesson). And, since he has a 2 Karmic Lesson and similar 6 and
9 energy, we're not working with new energy here.
Hal's organization sheet (Figure 16-1 on page 163) shows the
11 Maturity Number in the 11 row. The 2 Maturity Number
which is being emphasized is shown in the 2 row. Both are in
the center column.
See Step 13, page 208, for a description of Hal's 2 Maturity
Number and Step 21, page 213, for a mention of Hal's 11
Maturity Number.
}.CHAPTER 16: THE MATURITY NUMBER 163 Co~~~+ ~~=~~0 ~ ~ t--... ~J~;o~~..::Four 1's t? '1 Challenge ~
1 5
:~ r. !.!~2 Maturity 2 Karmic Lesson
2 Number 6
~~')
.:
~~. .~ "
Five 3's ~
---t ~3 3 Prime 3
Intensifier
"
~{
.~ "
::~ ~~II
~5 (® 14/5
---t (@.5 5 i.
~t;~ ~ 6 @; 6 Modified
---t Karmic Lesson 6
.;'
7 Karmic Lesson
7 (7)
I'~
" ;! 8
~9 ®
----i 9 9 Growth
Number
11
11 Maturity
Nu~ 9
A
~ ~ /'
22 .... -;::::::. - .. '- .. (" ,-)-
DIR.CTINQ
MODlPl~.
Figure 16-1
Organization Sheet with Maturity Number
CHAPTER 17: THE SECRET SELF
CHAPTER 17
AN INNER DREAM:
THE SECRET SELF
THE SECRET SELF DESCRIBES A DREAM OF Definition
DESIRES CHERISHED DEEP IN THE RECESSES OF THE
MIND. The Secret Self (or Quiescent Self or Quiet Self or Latent Self) is a modifier of lesser importance.
The Secret Self adds a special energy even though it's rarely
connected to the realities of an individual's life. It usually
doesn't have any relation to a person's opportunities, abilities or
apparent desires, It's "always a pleasurable fantasy, usually a
fantasy of achievements which the individual makes little effort
to actually accomplish. The contrast between the fantasy and
the life is often fascinating and perplexing, though most people
readily acknowledge their love of the fantasy as well as their
lack of interest in making it a reality. Though only a disconnected dream, the Secret Self adds a dimension to the individual, a dimension different than that added by any other
modifier.
The Secret Self is derived by finding the sum of the number Calculation
values of all the consonants in each name, reducing this sum to
a single digit or master number, then adding the sums of all the
names together and reducing that total to a single digit or
master number. For instance:
ABRAHAM LINCOLN
29 8 4
(23) 5
3 53 35
+ (19) 1 = 6 Secret Self
~ 165 ~ ~ 85•~ ~ ~ ~ I, ~ ~ "
~ a;~ ~ ~: I~ ~ 1,1
a"
~ " :t
.'
~ ~ }~
"~. ~.
:~
':
:~
::
:1
,
"
"
,-;
~ :}
"
,~
1 >,;;
:~
~ ;~, fi;
~( .~.
f
';
:,
> "
:;
~:
~-
t
~ :)
~
IT
" :{
~
~
~~
166
FRANKLIN DELANO
69 523 5 4 3 5
(30) 3 + (12) 3
HARRY S. TRUMAN
8 99 1 29 4 5
(26) 8 +1+ (20) 2
+
PART III: THE MODIFIERS
ROOSEVELT
9 1 4 32
(19) 1 = 7 Secret Self
II Secret Self
Commentary The Secret Self is simply a dream with the keywords or
Expression
in
delineation
essence of the Secret Self number as the ultimate development
of the dream. Lincoln, for instance, with his 6 Secret Self,
probably looked forward, in his mind's eye, to the beauty of
home, family and friends; Roosevelt, in his private fantasy, is
likely to have delighted in being an all-wise mystic (7 Secret
Self); Truman, in secret, is apt to have contemplated a life
dedicated to a spiritual mission (11 Secret Self). These three
men of action cherished such very different dreams. Can you
see how this modifier gives you such a special insight?
There are only a few instances where the Secret Self has any
chance of being related to reality.
If the Secret Self and the Life Path are the same number, the
desire of. the Secret Self matches the opportunities of the Life
Path. Here, the individual may work to obtain the pleasure of
harmonizing the dream with the real world.
If the Secret Self and the Soul Urge are the same number, the
fantasy desire of the Secret Self matches the apparent desire
described by the Soul Urge. The fantasy becomes a realistic
desire here with the possibility of fulfillment dependent on the
rest of the core and the modifiers.
The Secret Self, if included at all, is mentioned in the delineation along with other modifiers of the same or similar
number. If the Secret Self doesn't match the Life Path or the
Soul Urge, it can be omitted or included with a minimum
description. (I usually include it because it fascinates me, and
because it often adds a dramatic contrast.) If the Secret Self
matches the Life Path or the Soul Urge, the deep satisfaction
obtainable with the possibility of fulfillment should be discussed along with a full description of the dream.
CHAPTER 17: THESECRETSELF
The Secret Self is placed in the central column of the organization sheet (Figure 17-1 below).
HARLAN WILL I AM ALLEN
8 93 5 5
(25) 7 +
33 4
(15) 6 +
33 5
11 24
6 Secret Self
Turn to Step 13, page 209, for a description of Hal's Secret
Self. Since his 6 Secret Self doesn't match either his 5 Life Path
or his 9 Soul Urge, the description is minimized.
----t
----j
----I
----I
+
0
1
Four 1's 1 Challenge
2 Maturity 2 Karmic Lesson
2 Number
Five 3's \J.J ~3 3 Prime
Intensifier
4
~5 @ 14/5
@o5
@; 6 Modified
~ 6 . 6 See ref Self Karmic Lesson . ,_ .• r-.).
'"
~ 7 Karmic Lesson
7
8 ~ f:::::::-
~9 ®
9 Growth
Number
11
11 Maturity
Number
22
DIRECTINO
MODiPIERa
Figure 17-1
Organization Sheet with Secret Self
5
6
3
5
6
(7)
~ ~
9
9
Hal Allen's
organization
sheet and
delineation
167
.~
~-,
CHAPTER 18: NUANCES
CHAPTER 18
NUANCES:
GROUPS,
NUMBERS BEHIND
THE CORE ELEMENTS
WHEN 40% OR MORE OF THE ELEMENTS AND Croups
SUB-ELEMENTS BELONG TO A GROUP, THE GROUP
ENERGY IS AN IMPORTANT MODIFIER.
You may remember that, in Chapter 2, we discussed the fact
that some of th~ e.:p.ergies naturally work together. Here are the
most common groups:
1,4,8 business, system and order, self-centered2,6,9
3,6,9
7,11,22
11,22
ness.
helping, caring
artistic, creative
nervous tension
special potential
If some of the elements are part of the group, the elements'
description alone will indicate the group energy. Sometimes,
though, you'll find groups primarily of sub-elements. Unless
their energy is described, this important effect would not be
noted.
Carl, on page 143 of Chapter 13, has a lot of numbers from
the first group.
His Life Path is 8.
His Soul Urge is 1.
His Birthday is 4.
One Soul Urge sub-element is 1.
Two Expression sub-elements are 4.
~ 169 ~ ~ ,
~ ~ !j
I~ *~ ~ i~ ~ ~ ~ ;-1
.-~
.~
~ ~
,t~
~ -<
:~ iU
"~
~~ ~~ :::
~\
'~:
:~ )
,.
0
;1;.
<
,~
170 PART 111: THE MODIFIERS
Of the twelve elements and sub-elements, six belong to the
1,4,8 group, indicating that Carl would probably express a
strong leaning toward business, system and order as well as displaying a tendency to be self-centered. Since three of his
elements are in this group, it's not necessary to describe the
group energy in a separate paragraph in the reading.
Numbers My birthname is Matthew Oliver Goodwin.
behind The calculation for my Expression would, of course, look like
the core this:
elements MATTHEW
4122855
(27) 9 +
OLIVER
639459
(36) 9 +
GOODWIN
7664595
(42) 6 =24=@
THE 24 IS THE NUMBER "BEHIND" THE 6. IT ADDS A
TRACE OF COLORATION TO THE DESCRIPTION OF
THE CORE ELEMENT. It is a modifier of lesser importance.
The purest form, say, of the 6 Expression would occur when
there is no number behind the Expression, just the subelements. For instance:
HENRIETTA JEAN HUME
.8 5 5 9 9 5 2 2 1 1 5 1 5 8 3 4 5
(46) (10) 1 + (12) 3 + (20) 2 = @;
This pure form, of course, represents an individual who is
responsible, helpful, loving and sympathetic.
We have, from Chapter 13:
CARL HAROLD CHR I STOPHER
3193 819634 38991267859
(16) 7 + (31) 4 + (67) (13) 4 = 15 = @;
Now Carl has a 15 behind the 6. We would expect Carl to
emphasize his own needs a bit more than Henrietta (from the
self-centered 1 and 5 traits) and tend to be a bit looser and freer
in his committments (from the restlessness of the 5).
My name, above, with the 24 behind the 6, would mean that
I tend to be very responsible, helpful, loving and sympathetic
. (the 2 adds energy similar to the 6 energy), along with a trace of
stubbornness or rigidity (a 4 trait).
CHAPTER 18: NUANCES
And finally:
WALLACE WELL S MANDEL
5133135
(21) 3 +
5 5331
(17) 8 +
415453
22 = 33 =@;
With that 33 behind the 6, Wallace would tend to show
optimism and enthusiasm (3 characteristics) along with his
loving, responsible nature. The 33 doesn?t express as a negative doubled 3 but, rather, as the positive side of the 3-
emphasized.
These are, admittedly, rather subtle nuances. Include them
in the delineation when it feels comfortable.
Hal Allen has:
6 Expression
9 Soul Urge
3 Birthday
6 sub-element in the Life Path
9 sub-element in the Expression
6 sub-element in the Soul Urge
Six of his twelve elements and sub-elements belong to the
3,6,9 group. This should be noted in the bottom row of his
organization sheet (Figure 18-1 on page 172).
Since Hal's strongiutistic and creative potential is described
by his core elements, it's not necessary to devote any additional
space in the delineation to the group energy.
A description of the numbers behind Hal's elements-the 14
behind his 5 Life Path and the 24 behind his 6 Expression-are
not included in the delineation, either. The 1 energy is already
described with Hal's four l's Intensity Point and 1 Challenge.
The 2 energy is discussed relative to Hal's 2 Maturity Number
and 2 Karmic Lesson. The 4 energy is not specifically mentioned in Hal's delineation. His opposing 5 energy is so strong
that this subtle 4 potential would be of little consequence.
You'll find that there are only occasional instances where
either the group energy or the numbers behind the elements
need mentioning.
Hal Allen's
organization
sheet and
delineation
1 71
~
~ ~ ~
r,
;r
I~
".~
.~
~j ",'
~ ~:
:)0
"
~. ~
~!
~ {
~;. ~~
·1
',~
..
;~
:!
;:;
r:
...
'G:
:~.
,>
;-~
~, ~; " " >
:(:
~~.
'.:'
;~
'~,I
.~
.'
,~. .,
.)
':;
:~
~~ )'.
,
~ ."
:~
r~ ~. ~~~ ~
'.r-
"
~\
~.
.,
~. a:
~~ .;
" ,;
"
if
.,
172 PART 111: THE MODIFIERS
+
0
Four l's 1 Challenge
1 5
2
2 Maturity 2 Karmic Lesson
Number 6
Five 3's ~
---I ~ 3 3 Prime 3
Intensifier
"
---I ~5 ® 14/5
®.5
5
.. 6 @ 6 Modified
---i
6 Secret Self Karmic Lesson 6
7 Karmic Lesson
7 (7)
8
---i ~9 ® 9 9 Growth
Number
11 Maturity
11 Number 9
22
r DIR.CTlNG
MODlPl.R.
50% of elements, sub-elements iii3, 6, 9 Group
Figure 18-1
Organization Sheet with Group shown
CHAPTER 19: THE TEMPERAMENT
CHAPTER 19
THE BASIC VIEWPOINT:
THE TEMPERAMENT
THE TEMPERAMENT DESCRIBES THE DISPOSITION Definition
OR BASIC VIEWPOINT DETERMINED BY THE RELATIVE PROPORTION OF PHYSICAL, MENT AL, EMOTIONAL AND INTUITIVE COMPONENTS. Remember, in
Chapter 10 (page 112), we introduced the idea of directing
modifiers, modifiers that direct the energies of core elements
and other modifiers? The Temperament is the first of the directing modifiers !h~t~e're going to discuss.
The Temperament (or Planes of Temperament or Planes of
Expression or Plane of Consciousness) is a very important
modifier. The disposition or balance of qualities brought to our
activities is often a significant determinant of the work we do
or the friends we make. The core, of course, represents the very
essence of a person, but the person's Temperament-his basic
viewpoint-may be important in attracting friends, mates or
business associates.
The Temperament is composed of four components, each The
representing a different area of consciousness: Components
The Physical Component
is represented by the body,
deals with the senses.
The Physical viewpoint is concerned with tangible
form, material matters, practical affairs, physical
adventures.
173
174
Calculating
the
components
PART III: THE MODIFIERS
The Mental component
is represented by the mind,
deals with thinking, reasoning, logic, facts.
The Mental viewpoint is concerned with mental activities, business enterprises, political affairs.
The Emotional component
is represented by the emotions,
deals with the feelings.
The Emotional viewpoint is concerned with feelings,
affection, artistic endeavors, creativity, imagination.
The Intuitive component
is represented by the spirit,
deals with inner awarenesses.
The Intuitive viewpoint is concerned with sensitivity to
non-material experience-spiritual, religious, psychic,
metaphysical-and ultimate wisdom.
Each letter of the alphabet belongs to one component group
as shown in this table:
ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ T~ili
Physical DE M ~ 4
Mental A GH J L N P 7
Emotional B I 0 RST X Z 8
Intuitive C F K Q UV Y 7
Calculate the Temperament by placing each letter of the
name in its appropriate place in the Temperament table. For
instance, Woodrow Wilson's birth name was:
THOMAS WOODROW WILSON Totals
Physical MWDWW 5
Mental ·HALN 4
Emotional TOSOOROISO 10
Intuitive 0
Summarize the Temperament table information on one line:
5 Physical, 4 Mental, 10 Emotional, 0 Intuitive
CHAPTER 19: THE TEMPERAMENT
The strong components significantly affect the disposition.
The weak components also significantly affect the dispositionnegatively, because of their lacks. The average components
allow the energy related to their area of consciousness to
develop, although the energy is not likely to be emphasized as
much as the energy related to the strong components.
The strong components are:
The component with the largest number, and
Any other component with a number equal to at least
60% of the largest number.
The weak components are:
Any component with a number less than 25 % of the
largest number.
The average components are:
Any component with a number less than 60 % of the
largest number and 25 % or more of the largest number.
In Woodrow Wilson's example:
10 Emotional is the largest number. This is a strong
component.
60 % of 10 = .60 x 10 = 6
25% of 10 = .25 x 10 = 2.5
5 Physical is less than 6 and more than 2.5. This is an
average comRonent. _
4 Mentalis 'less than 6 and more than 2.5. This is an
average component.
o Intuitive is less than 2.5. This is a weak component.
Summarizing Wilson's relative component strengths:
10 Emotional 5 Physical 4 Mental 0 Intuitive
Strong Average Average Weak
What's the effect of the relative component strengths? Here's
a brief rundown:
PHYSICAL COMPONENT
WEAK
Viewpoint or disposition:
Material matters' are not of particular interest.
Practicality has little to do with judgments.
Calculating
the
components'
strengths
Component
Descriptions
175
176 PART Ill: THE MODIFIERS
Often characterized or expressed by:
Avoidance of hard work and situations requiring concentration.
Lack of physical discipline.
STRONG
Viewpoint or disposition:
Concerned with material matters.
Extremely practical. Solid common sense view.
Concerned with economical use of resources.
Turns ideas into material reality.
Prefers system and order.
Often characterized or expressed by:
Physical endurance.
Practical nature.
Capability of extreme concentration.
Determination.
Strong opinions, forceful.
MENTAL COMPONENT
WEAK
Viewpoint or disposition:
Mental matters are not of particular interest.
(This component gives no indication of subject's intelligence.)
Lack of concern with reason, logic, facts.
Often characterized or expressed by:
Little explanation of motivations.
Disinterest in leadership.
Lack of will power.
Lack of mental discipline.
STRONG
Viewpoint or disposition:
Concern with reason, logic, facts.
Reason is likely to be one of prime motivators.
Concern with leadership.
Often characterized or expressed by:
Desire to reach logical conclusion.
Logical deductions used as motivating force.
Activity in large business, politics.
Determination.
Intellectual orientation.
~.
CHAPTER 19: THE TEMPERAMENT
EMOTIONAL COMPONENT
WEAK
Viewpoint or disposition:
Feelings-his own or others-are not of any particular
interest.
Likely to have difficulty accepting his own emotional
nature.
Views life with little sentiment and imagination.
Often characterized or expressed by:
Limited expression of feelings.
Lack of creative imagination.
Unsentimental approach.
STRONG
Viewpoint or disposition:
Extremely emotional point of view.
Little concern with facts.
Very sympathetic.
Very sentimental.
Much imagination.
Often characterized or expressed by:
Direct and open expressions of friendship, affection,
love.
Artistic and creative endeavors.
Nervous nature.
TOO STRONG (More than twice closest component, or more
than all other components combined.)
Often characterized or expressed by:
Lack of clarity or confusion introduced by a too emotional viewpoint.
Overwhelmed by imagination.
Extremely nervous nature.
INTUITIVE COMPONENT
WEAK
Viewpoint and disposition:
Intuitive awarenesses, spiritual, psychic and metaphysical matters are of little interest.
Distrusts inner voice.
Often characterized or expressed by:
Little concern with inner development.
~177 "Ec~::c~~~!"~~~:~~,,'.,~:~~~:;>~i1'~~~~)
~
liB
Using the
component
descriptions
PART Ill: THE MODIFIERS
STRONG
Viewpoint and disposition:
Deep intuitive awarenesses. Concerned with wisdom,
fundamentals.
Listens to inner voice for guidance.
Understands humanistic goals. Awareness of brotherhood of man.
Concerned with spiritual, philosophic, inventive matters.
Often characterized or expressed by:
Actions based on understanding, wisdom.
Tolerant and compassionate approach.
Unusual thinking or behavior, likely to attract attention.
TOO STRONG (5 or more)
Extremely unusual thinking or behavior, likely to attract attention, possibly negative attention.
Possibility of delicate health.
Translating Woodrow Wilson's components into a beginning
description of his Temperament:
Wilson is likely to have an extremely emotional
point of view, a disposition displaying much imagination and creativity (from his strong Emotional
component). H is too emotional level is apt to add
confusion, aggravated by his extremely nervous
nature. (His Emotional component is greater than the
other components combined.) He probably shows little intuitive awareness (from his weak Intuitive component).
Tempera- Being a directing modifier, the Temperament is different
ment than the other modifiers we've studied so far. The other modias
modifier
fiers describe additions to or subtractions from the core's inherent energy. The Temperament doesn't describe an addition or subtraction of energy, but a disposition toward the use
of the energy. If you visualize the core and modifiers sending
out a flow of energy, the Temperament would act like a filter,
. allowing only a portion ofthe energy to flow through.
CHAPTER 19: THE TEMPERAMENT
--~---.--.
En ... gy j L. Temperament
Filter
Figure 19-1
Temperament as direction modifier
r Filtered I En...."
In other words, the individual's Temperament or disposition
toward his basic energy potential determines the portion of the
energy potential he is likely to use and the kind of use he can
make of that portion. (In the examples that follow, we're going
to deal, for simplicity's sake, with only the core energies. But, in
a delineation, both the core and modifier energies would be
involved.)
Here's Olivia with the following core:
6 Life Path with much emotional energy potential
5 Expression with much physical and mental energy
potential
7 Soul Urge witp. much tntuitive and mental energy
potential' .•
8 Birthday with much mental energy potential
Olivia, in this simplified look at her energy, has a substantial
amount of all four kinds of potential. What kind of a Temperament filter would let all that energy through? A Temperament
filter that had a good balance of its components-that is, four
strong components. (If there were only one or two strong components and the rest were average components, it's likely that
all the energy could get through the filter, but it would be
easier for the strong components to get through and they would
tend to dominate the Temperament.) It could be summarized
something like this:
5 Physical 4 Mental 5 Emotional 3 Intuitive
For Olivia, the Temperament is just about a transparent
filter, allowing all the energies to pass through for maximum
impact. Olivia, with her broad spectrum of energy, has all
facets of her inherent potential available.
179
180
Organization
sheet
How to use
the Temperament in a
delineation·
PART III: THE MODIFIERS
Suppose Olivia's Temperament looked like this:
8 Physical 7 Mental 6 Emotional 5 Intuitive
or like this:
3 Physical 3 Mental 4 Emotional 3 Intuitive
The description of both of these Temperaments would be
similar to the description of Olivia's original Temperament.
The digits themselves are, in this case, less important than the
PROPORTIONAL RELATION of the digits to each other.
What if Olivia, with the same core, has an extremely disbalanced Temperament, one that looks like this:
2 Physical 8 Mental 3 Emotional 1 Intuitive
With this Temperament, Olivia would display little interest
in material matters (weak Physical component), feelings (weak
Emotional component) and spiritual, psychic and metaphysical
matters (weak Intuitive component). She would, on the other
hand, display an extremely intellectual point of view and be
apt to show considerable interest in business or political affairs
(strong Mental component).
This disbalanced Temperament could be represented by a
filter which would predominantly pass the mental energies. Of
the core potential, the 8 Birthday is primarily mental and the 5
Expression and 7 Soul Urge have significant mental potential.
A good deal of these energies are likely to be operable in
Olivia's life-only the primarily emotional 6 Life Path will
tend to be blocked by this Temperament filter.
The Temperament, along with the First Letter and the First
Vowel discussed in the next chapter, are the only directing
modifiers. These three modifiers are grouped in the next to
last row of the organization sheet labeled DIRECTING
MODIFIERS rather than being grouped by modifier numbers.
In the delineation, the Temperament is summarized in a few
separate paragraphs rather than being included in the body of
the reading with the other modifiers.
The Temperament, like the core and other modifiers,
describes the probable conditions at birth. The individual's free
will determines if the Temperament will be modified during
CHAPTER 19: THE TEMPERAMENT
the life. For most people, there appears to be relatively little
modification. If the Temperament, then, indicates a strong
bias, it is likely that some of the energies won't ever be explored
or expressed. Occasionally, if the individual has a strong energy
bias muffled by the Temperament, he may choose to modify
the Temperament to allow these energies to surface. By including all the energies in the body of the delineation and
confining the Temperament description to a few separate
paragraphs, we are describing all the potential energies but
expecting that only those energies that "pass the filter" will be
expressed. The way is left open for a modification of the
Temperament with consequent expression of the additional
energies.
A friend of mine will serve as a good example. Daniel has
very strong intuitive energies in his core, but a Temperament
with a strong Physical component and a weak Intuitive component. His early years were devoted to the construction business,
with no interest in anything that he could not see demonstrated
or scientifically proved. In his later years, he has become
fascinated with the occult world, although still maintaining his
construction interests. He- approaches the occult world, an expression of his intuitive energies, with heavy emphasis on the
system and order he can find, a manifestation of his strong
Physical component. Daniel is now making better use of his intuitive energies with his Physical component than in his early
years. In time, he may choose to enlarge the scope of his Temperament filter, increase the power of his Intuitive component
to further accq:r;ru;noQate his interest in the occult.
We'll look at Emily, with the following core:
8 Life Path
4 Expression
6 Soul Urge
1 Birthday
and the following Temperament:
7 Physical 8 Mental 3 Emotional 1 Intuitive
Emily has strong Physical and Mental components, an average Emotional component and a weak Intuitive component.
From the component descriptions on pages 175-178, we
would expect the following:
Strong Physical ~omponent: Extremely practical, common sense point of view expressed with concentration
and determination.
Temperament
delineation
example
181
.~.
-,-
182 PART Ill: THE MODIFIERS
Strong Mental component: Motivated by reason, concerned with leadership. Intellectual orientation may be
expressed in large business or politics.
Weak Intuitive component: Little interest in spiritual,
psychic and metaphysical matters.
The strong Mental and Physical components will allow the
use of much of the 8,4 and 1 core energies. The weak Intuitive
component will, in Emily's case, have little effect because there
is little intuitive energy inherent in the core.
The delineation paragraphs describing Emily's Temperament might read like this:
Emily has a reasonably well-balanced temperament: her concern with mental and material matters is likely to be emphasized, her concern with
feelings is present but less strongly stressed. (Since
there is little intuitive energy or intuitive direction, it's
not even mentioned.)
Emily's strong concern with logic and reason
(strong Mental) is likely to prove of importance in
her business dealings (8 Life Path). Her executive
ability (8 Life Path, 1 Birthday) may be enhanced by
her concerns with leadership (strong Mental) as well
as her will and determination (strong Physical). Her
extremely practical and realistic nature (strong
. Physical) and her concern with the economical use
of resources (strong Physical) would stand her in
good stead in the business world (8 Life Path),
although her strong opinions (strong Physical) might
just emphasize her tendencies to rigidity or stubbornness (8 Life Path, 4 Expression). Her strong sense
of system and order (4 Expression, strong Physical),
her ability to turn ideas into material reality (strong
Physical) and her intellectual orientation (strong
Mental) will certainly help her to manage and regulate (4 Expression) her activities.
With her average Emotional component, Emily's emotional
energies, primarily expressed in her 6 Soul Urge, will pass
through the Temperament filter, but won't be as emphasized as
her other core energies.
CHAPTER 19: THE TEMPERAMENT
Hal's Temperament is calculated as follows:
HARLAN WILLIAM ALLEN Totals
Physical
Mental
Emotional
Intuitive
Mental component
Physical component
Emotional component
Intuitive component
WME 3
HALANLLAALLN 12
RII 3
0
12 strong
3 (less than sixty percent of 12, but just
twenty-five percent of 12) __ average
3 (less than sixty percent of 12, but just
twenty-five percent of 12) __ average
o (less than twenty-five percent of
12) weak
Hal's Temperament-strong Mental component, weak Intuitive component-is shown in the directing modifier row of the
organization sheet (Figure 19-2 on page 184).
Turn to Step 24, page 214, and read the paragraphs describing Hal's Temperament.
,. '- "('.).
Hal Allen's
organization
sheet and
delineation
183
"
184 PART 111: THE MODIFIERS
+
0
Four 1's 1 Challenge
1 5
2 Maturity 2 Karmic Lesson
2 Number 6
Five 3's ~ ----j ~ 3 3 Prime 3
Iptensifier
4
----i ~5 @ 14/5
@'5
5
@ 6 Modified
---t ~ 6 6 Secret Self Karmic Lesson 6
7 Karmic Lesson
7 (7)
8
~9 ®
----j 9 9 Growth
Number
11 Maturity
11 Number 9
22 A __
DIR.CTING
Temperament: Strong Mentala
~
Weak Intuitive
MODlPl.RS
50% of elements, sub-elements in 3, 6, 9 Group
Figure 19-2
Organization Sheet with Temperament
CHAPTER 20: FIRST LETTER; FIRST VOWEL
CHAPTER 20
THE APPROACH
TO EXPERIENCE:
THE FIRST LETTER
THE FIRST VOWEL
THE FIRST LETTER AND FIRST VOWEL OF THE Definition
NAME DESCRIBE THE NATURAL OR INNATE APPROACH, THE METHOD OF RESPONSE AND REACTION TO EXPERIENCE. The First Letter and First Vowel
are directing modifiers'.
These are important modifiers. Since the nature of a person's
experience is structured by the core and since the approach to
this experience is structured by the First Letter and First
Vowel, the approach can have a LIMITING or STABILIZING
or ENHANCING effect on a person's experience.
With an effort of the, will, the approach can be shifted. It
takes a significant force to change the approach so that, for instance, there is an enhancing effect rather than a limiting effect
on a person's experience. You are, to a great extent, attached to
the First Letter and First Vowel much as you're connected to
the core.
Some numerologists define the First Letter (or Cornerstone)
as the approach to material experience, the First Vowel as the
approach to spiritual or non-material experience. In my experience, the approach to material and spiritual experience is
an amalgam of the letter and vowel. The vowel predominates,
supplying sixty percent of the direction while the letter supplies
forty percent. .
185
~~"~~~3"
~~~~N~~;1"i';~~-!~;;\'1:.:,~! .",:': ,0'-,
J.;:'. ~ ~" ~,"
"
,-
"
"
-,
186
Chart 11:
The First
Letter
PART 111: THE MODIFIERS
Turn to CHART 11: THE FIRST LETTER, page 354. Here you'll
find descriptions of the portion of the approach symbolized
by the consonants. The vowels are not included in this chart,
but are found on CHART 12: THE FIRST VOWEL. Wand Yare
sometimes consonants and sometimes vowels. Chart 11 describes Wand Y as consonants while Chart 12 describes these
letters as vowels.
To the right of each letter on Chart 11 is a key phrase summarizing the characteristics described.
The traits described are often symbolized in the letter itself.
For example:
H, M rest solidly on two legs, denote awareness of the
material world.
(A, a vowel, rests on a similar base, soars upwards to
symbolize originality and creativity.)
B, D (and 0, a vowel) are enclosed, self-protected, retiring.
E, C are open-ended, spontaneous, adventurous.
Y has two arms, two directions, a sense of uncertainty,
vacillation.
As shown on Chart 11, the letters can be grouped according
to modifier energies. For example, all letters with 1 modifier
numbers-A,] ,S-represent qualities of leadership while all
letters with 7 modifier numbers-G,P, Y -represent qualities of
thinking. The fourth horizontal row compares the letters
directly above.
The letters can also be grouped horizontally. In the upper
row, A through I (the first through the ninth letters), the
energy is usually positively oriented-C is a spontaneous creator while D is a steady builder.
In the second row, ] through R (the tenth through the eighteenth letters), the energy is considerably less pure. L represents the reasoning creator (as opposed to the spontaneous
creator of C) and M is a controlled builder (compared to the
steady builder of D). In the top row, the noun and adjective of
the key phrase are supportive; in the second row, the adjective
generally weakens the thrust of the noun.
And, in the third row, S through Z (the nineteenth through
the twenty-sixth letters), the energy often feels misdirected. W
represents an encounterer, but, unfortunately, a limiting encounterer (as compared to the E adventurous encounterer). Y
represents an uncertain thinker. The noun and the adjective
tend to be at odds with each other. The notable exception here,
like the K exception in the second row, is the V inspirational
master.
Think of the descriptions as only a beginning in your under-
CHAPTER 20: FIRST LETTER; FIRST VOWEL
standing of the individual letters. With the key phrases and
descriptions as a base, compare the characteristics you observe
in people and enlarge your awareness of the letters.
CHART 12: THE FIRST VOWEL, page 368, describes the portion
of the approach symbolized by the vowels. As shown on the
chart, the vowels must be viewed in terms of their pronunciation:
Long vowels-A in James, E in Eva, I in Ida-contain
energy in the purest, most positive form.
Short vowels-I in Lisa, 0 in Oliver, U in Ruth-have
the same general characteristics as the long vowels,
but they have considerably less power and are more
muted in expression.
Combined vowels are two vowels combined in the
same syllable-AU in Aubrey, E in Eugene,
AY in Raymond. The power and expression of the
combined vowels are as muted as the short vowels.
Familiarize yourself with the approach represented by each
vowel and the nuances reflecting the vowel's pronounciation.
A stresses LEADERSHIP, individuality, creativity.
E stresses ADVENTURE, activity, change.
I stresses HUMANITARIANISM, creativity, deep
emotions,.
o stresses HARMONIZATION, responsibility, selfcontainment,concealed feelings.
U stresses SENSITIVITY, intuition.
W stresses VACILLATION.
Y stresses THOUGHT, analysis, introspection, vacillation, intuition.
Chart 12:
The First
Vowel
With just a little memorization, you can begin to use the Commentary
First Letter and First Vowel. For instance, the next time you
meet a Mary, see if you can see the leadership, the individuality, the creativity associated with the A along with the
controlled, practical and steadying effect of the M. The characteristics just mentioned describe the way Mary approaches experience-which, in terms of numerology, is the way Margaret
and Maria and Mark and Matthew and Matilda also approach
experience. The approach will appear somewhat differently in
j~·187 !ii1:~~~~"e\,',~:tJ};1",I~~r-'J ~~"
:";'j
1,.~•J~~ .. J ,;~"
~4 U.,
.~":"f "
::"
:-:.
,~. ,
188
Example:
The core
energies are
limited
Example:
The core
energies are
enhanced
PART III: THE MODIFIERS
all the different Marys and Margarets, of course, depending on
their cores and other modifiers. But, when you start to look,
you'll be amazed (a) that the approach is usually very much
apparent, and (b) that the approach is expressed in such a
variety of ways because of the presence of the other numbers. I
particularly enjoy this exercise because it doesn't involve any
calculations. With a little practice, you can shake hands with a
person, think about their first name, and, almost instantly,
have some useful awarenesses.
This may be fun to practice, but you can't, of course, use the
First Letter and First Vowel all by themselves and expect to acquire a deep understanding of another person. These are two
modifiers and must always be viewed as modifiers of the core
energies. Let's examine a few illustrations of the natural approach modifying the core.
Muriel has a 6 Life Path
1 Expression
2 Soul Urge
7 Birthday
Muriel's energy is likely to be devoted to harmonizing and
balancing situations (6), leading and promoting (1), giving love
and affection (2), as well as expressing some creative urges (6).
Muriel's long First Vowel U describes, among other traits, a
conservative streak and a sense of indecisiveness. Muriel's First
.. Letter M indicates a controlled approach, self-discipline and a
steady, thorough worker. Muriel's approach to her experiences
is likely to reflect these characteristics. She'll tend to LIMIT her
growth because of her approach. (It's true that the U will also
stress sensitivity and idealism while the M will also stress organizational ability. The positive qualities of these traits will, of
themselves, enhance the possibilities for growth, but the total
effect of the MU leans toward the conservative and controlled-toward limiting development.)
Clive has the same core as Muriel.
But Clive's long First Vowel I describes a very intense approach with much passion and sensitivity. And Clive's First
Letter C stresses an exhilarating expression of the joy of living
coupled with spontaneous creative inspiration. Since Clive's
response to his experience will probably stress these traits, his
approach will ENHANCE his development.
.~. :t
CHAPTER 20: FIRST LETTER; FIRST VOWEL
Don has a 5 Life Path
3 Expression
1 Soul Urge
2 Birthday
Don's energy is probably involved in making the most of the
exciting opportunities he finds (5), expressing the joy of living
(3), actively seeking situations where he can use his abilities (1).
Don's short First Vowel 0 indicates stress on responsibility,
self containment, controlled emotions, an innate understanding
of how to protect himself from life's storms. Don's First Letter
D describes a self-disciplined, efficient, conservative approach.
With a different core, Don's natural approach might stifle and
restrict his growth, but, with his high-flying core energy, Don's
approach is more likely to STABILIZE his development.
It's usually fairly simple to describe the natural approach to
experience, but it's not always as easy, as in the above three examples, to pinpoint the limiting, stabilizing or enhancing tendencies. If the effect of the approach on a person's experience
proves more complex than in our simple examples, describe
which individual traits are limiting, which stabilizing and
which enhancing. And it's fine if it feels a little ambiguous!
Life-and character traits-more often than not, are full of
complexities and ambiguities. A partially ambiguous reading is
merely a refl~cUQn.of the person's ambiguous structure!
Example:
The core
energies are
stabilized
Here are a few special cases: Special
When the first letter is the First Vowel, as in Abigail, Everett
or Yvette, the traits of the First Vowel provide the complete
description of the natural approach.
When there are combined vowels, the traits usually ascribed
to the First Vowel are actually a combination of the traits of
the two vowels involved. The vowel which is· more strongly
pronounced would tend to be more strongly expressed in the
approach.
For example, the combined vowels at the beginning of
Audrey are also the first letters. The A is the stronger sound in
the first syllable, so the· A traits predominate over the U traits.
cases
189
190 PART 111: THE MODIFIERS
The combined A describes a sensitive leader, while the combined U describes a conservative receptor. I would expect any
Audrey to have an innate approach stressing her leadership
ability, her originality and her good mind (A characteristics),
helped by her sensitivity and somewhat blunted by her indecisive ways (U characteristics).
When there are combined vowels and one of them is a W or
Y, the W or Y traits are always weaker than the traits of the
other vowel. If- the vowel is W, it adds its approach along with
a vacillating nature. If the vowel is Y, it adds a vacillating
nature only.
For example, Boyd's natural approach is a combination of
the traits of the combined vowels OY (sixty percent) with the
First Letter B (forty percent). 0 describes a responsible, conservative, self-contained, sympathetic individual. Y adds indecision and restlessness. B's approach is shy, retiring, indecisive,
very sensitive and very emotional.
Boyd's natural approach to experience would tend to be:
conservative
self -centered
sympathetic
very sensitive
very emotional
indecisive
(from the 0)
(from the 0)
(from the 0)
(from the B)
(from the B)
(from the Band Y)
When the modifier number of the First Letter or First Vowel
is the same as the number of a core element, there is a strong
. ENHANCING effect. The enhancing effect of the vowel is considerably stronger than the enhancing effect of the letter.
The I in Michael describes the approach of a humanitarian.
If Michael has a Life Path of 9, he will tend to approach the opportunities of the 9-giving of himself for the deep satisfaction
of giving-with innate understanding.
When the modifier number of the First Letter or First Vowel
is the same as a doubled core element, there is a strong
LIMITING effect. The limiting effect of the vowel is considerably stronger than the limiting effect of the letter.
The D in Daniel describes the approach of a steady builder.
If Daniel's Expression and Soul Urge are both 4, he will tend
(according to the 4·4 aspect in CHART 6: THE ASPECTS) to feel:
Limited, tied down, frustrated, or
Disorganized, unaccountable.
CHAPTER 20: FIRST LETTER; FIRST VOWEL
With his innate approach partially described by the selfdisciplined, rigid, self-contained approach of the D, you can be
sure he'll feel limited, tied down and frustrated rather than
disorganized and unaccountable. You can also be sure that his
innate approach will emphasize the similar qualities in his Expression and Soul Urge. His rational approach will tend to limit
his development.
In a delineation, the expression of the First Letter
and First Vowel is best described in a separate paragraph or
two discussing the characteristics of the natural approach to experience as well as the tendency to limit, stabilize or enhance
the core energies.
Betty has a 1 Life Path .
4 Expression
8 Soul Urge
6 Birthday
Betty's energy is likely to be devoted to achieving independence (1), assuming leadership (1), carrying responsibility (4),
organizing (4), using her executive abilities (8), being a good
friend (6).
The paragraphs in her delineation expressing the First Letter
and First Vowel might read as follows:
Betty is likely to approach her life experiences
with a feeling,of adventure (E), a desire for excitement' an'dvariety (E), She te~ds to adapt herself
well (E). She uses her good mind (E), her good
perceptions and judgments of people, motivations and events (E) as well as her capability with
details (B). She' knows how to foster harmony in
groups in which she's involved (B). These characteristics will tend to enhance her role as a leader and
executive.
Betty's extreme sensitivity sometimes makes it difficult to work with others who are less sensitive (B).
Her tendency to be shy, retiring and self-contained
(B) often keeps her more comfortable in a subordinate role (B). Although she starts many projects,
she tends to abandon some of them or set them
aside for a later time (E). These traits are likely to
limit her stro.ng capability for leadership and
organization.
How to use
the First
Letter and
First Vowel
in a
delineation
191
.,:~,-: .'
.j.
192
Hal Allen's
organization
sheet and
delineation
PART Ill: THE MODIFIERS
Here, we discuss both enhancing and limiting traits. Note
that more space is devoted to the predominant E traits than to
the B characteristics.
Hal's First Letter and First Vowel, along with his Temperament, are placed in the row reserved for directing modifiers on
the organization sheet (Figure 20-1 below). These three are the
only modifiers not grouped by modifier numbers.
Turn to Step 25, page 216, and read the paragraphs of Hal's
delineation which discuss his natural approach to experience .
•
0
Four l's 1 Challenge
1 5
2
2 Maturity 2 Karmic Lesson
Number 6
Five 3's W
---I ~3 3 Prime 3
Intensifier
II
~5 ® 14/5
---t
@'5
5
........ ,;.. 6 @ 6 Modified
6 Secret Self Karmic Lesson 6
7 Karmic Lesson
7 (7)
_.
8 --
~9 ®
----i 9 9 Growth
Number
11
11 Maturity
Number 9
22
Temperament: Strong Mental
DIR.cnNG Weak Intuitive
MODlPI__ First
First Vowel:
Letter: ~
A
~
~ ---.....:::::::
~
50% of elements, sub-elements in 3, 6, 9 Group ~
Figure 20-1
Organization Sheet with First Letter and First Vowel
CHAPTER 21: SYNTHESIS
CHAPTER 21
SYNTHESIS OF THE CORE
AND MODIFIERS
We've now examined all the modifiers, one by one, and
become reasonably acquainted with their relative importance,
their modifying powers and their peculiarities. The modifiers
have been carefully separated in order to make the distinctions
among them as clear as possible. At last, we're ready to combine the modifiers with the core elements to arrive at a complete synthesis.
The delineation that follows starts with the slightly fuzzy "." ,_" .0(' ,.)-
black-and-white reproduction of Harlan William Allen that we
produced in Chapter 7 when we synthesized the core elements.
By adding the modifiers, we'll convert the blurred black-andwhite photo into a full-color focused portrait. Harlan (or Hal)
will, of course, have the same characteristics in the portrait
that he did in the reproduction, but the clearer focus and the
added color will bring 'out considerably more detail.
Hal's delineation, like all others, starts with the calculations.
Here's Hal's calculation sheet (Figure 21-1 on page 194), complete with all the modifiers.
Based on the idea of grouping comparable energies to add to
the coherence of the delineation, here's Hal's organization sheet
(Figure 21-2 on page 196), showing the modifiers along with
the core elements. The right-hand column indicates the
modifier number with which each energy is to be grouped.
Hal Allen's
calculation
sheet
Hal Allen's
organization
sheet
193 ~lr~~,y.~~Ilff3';~~~I;~.,"
;.j'j~~,j~,~~~"~<>,~ ;.! ,;
"i;;
."i.
194 PART III: THE MODIFIERS
January 1981
HAL ALLEN
,..--------KARMIC DEBT
€f Chapter 11
5 SUB-ELEMENT May 12, 1941
WITH 5 LIFE PATH ___
Chapter 13 5 +t+ 6
532
6 - 3 = 3
_-----1LIFE PATH!
14/5 - Chapter 3
!BIRTHDAY!
Chapter 6
3 - 2 = 1 CHALLENGE -, -----CHALLENGE
2 + (19) 1 + 6
1 1 9 91 1 5
FIRST LETTER",
Chapter 20
HARLAN WILLIAM ALLEN
FIRST VOWEL--?
Chapter 20
8 93 5 5 33 4 33 5
(25) 7 + (15) 6 + 11
819315 5933914 13355
GROWTH (27) /9 + (34) 7 + (17) 8 NUMBER----~~
Chapter 15
Chapter 12:
FOUR 1'5 INTENSITY POINT·----~four 1's
2 KARMIC LESSON·-------- no 2 --
FIVE 3'SIN.TE/ySITY POINTf- ~ five 3's
3 PRIME INTENSIFIER one 4
four 5's
6 MODIFIED KARMIC LESSON·----· no 6 --
7 KARMIC LESSON . no 7 -+-
one 8
three 9's
MATURITY
=0'
24
Chapter 14
!SOUL URGE!
Chapter 5
6 -SECRET SELF
Chapter 17
24 = I ®~EXPRESSION!
~ . Chapter 4
NUMBER---MATURITY NUMBER = 5 + 6
Chapter 16
11/2 ~TEMPERAMENT
/ Chapter 19
PHYSICAL
MENTAL
EMOTIONAL
INTUITIVE
WME
HALANLLAALLN
RII
Figure 21-1
Calculation Sheet:
Hal Allen
3-Average
12-Strong
3-Average
O-Weak
CHAPTER 21: SYNTHESIS
Here are Hal's energy groups shown diagramatically just as Hal Allen's
they were back in Chapter 10: energy group
5 energy •••••••• 0 0 0 0 added 5 and 1 diagram
energy
6 energy •••••• 000 added 6 and 2
energy
9 energy •••• 00 added 9 and 11
energy
3 energy •• 0 0 0
Misc.
added 3 energy
energy 0 added 7 energy
In Chapter 10, we didn't have any information about the
specific modifiers. Now that we do, we can convert the energy
group diagram into an outline for Hal's delineation, using the
actual modifiers listed on his organization sheet. (And, at the
end of the outline, we'll add the directing modifiers, which,
though discussed in Chapter 10, were not included in the
diagram.)
5 ENERGY AND RELATED ENERGY
Core:
Modifiers:
5 Life-Path
14/5 Karmic Debt
5 Life Path/5 sub-Life Path
Four 1's Intensity Point
1 Challenge , -
6 ENERGY AND RELATED ENERGY
Core:
Modifiers:
6 Expression
6 Secret Self
(3 Modified Karmic Lesson
3,6,9 group: fifty percent of
elements and sub-elements
2 Maturity Number
2 Karmic Lesson
9 ENERGY AND RELATED ENERGY
Core:
Modifiers:
3 ENERGY
Core:
Modifiers:
9 Soul Urge
9 Growth Number
11 Maturity Number
3 Birthday
Five 3's Intensity Point
3 Prime Intensifier
Hal Allen's
delineation
outline
195
196
---I
---I
---I
----i
PART 111: THE MODIFIERS
+
0
1
Four I's 1 Challenge
2
2 Maturity 2 Karmic Lesson
Number
Five 3's \V ~3 3 Prime
Intensifier
" ~5 ®l 14/5
®l05
~ 6 ® 6 Modified
6 Secret Sel f Karmic Lesson
7 Karmic Lesson
7
8
~9 ®
9 Growth
Number
11
11 Maturity
Number
22
Temperament: Strong Mental
DIR.CTlNO Weak Intuitive
MODl .... R. First Letter: H
First Vowel: A
50% of elements, sub-elements in 3, 6, 9 Group
Figure 21-2
Completed Organization Sheet:
Hal Allen
5
6
3
5
6
(7)
9
9
MISCELLANEOUS MODIFIERS
Modifiers: 7 Karmic Lesson
DIRECTING MODIFIERS
Temperament:
First Letter:
First Vowel:
Strong Mental,
weak Intuitive
H
A
CHAPTER 21: SYNTHESIS
We want to be sure that the core is preserved in the reading.
To do this, we'll use the 22 steps of the core synthesis of
Chapter 7 as a base. We'll insert the modifiers in the relevant
places based on the outline we've just developed.
Let's look, for instance, at the 5 and 6 energy in the outline.
The heart of the 5 energy is, of course, the 5 Life Path which is
described in Steps 2 through 8. The description of the four
modifiers connected with the 5 Life Path will be inserted in the
most appropriate place in those steps. The 6 Expression,
covered in Steps 9 through 14, will have its five corresponding
modifiers inserted in the most appropriate place in those steps
or, in one instance which we'll note, omitted as repetitious.
When we've completed the 22 steps, we'll add an additional
step to describe the miscellaneous energy and two additional
steps to describe the directing modifiers.
We now have a plan of action I
Below, then, is Hal Allen's complete synthesis. We'll list each
step, just as we did in Chapter 7, then provide explanations, in
italics, of the many modifications to the original core synthesis
required by the addition of the modifiers.
The actual delineation will be shown indented. The delineation contains all the paragraphs from the original core synthesis
plus additional paragraphs describing the modifiers.
A paragraph taken intact from Hal's core synthesis looks like
this: .,. '- ,.('.).
Although you may well be involved in domestic
activities, you may feel the pressures of the
responsibilities conflicting ....
A paragraph from Hal's core synthesis which is now deleted
looks like this:
There's a chance that you'll qe so exhilarated with
the opportunities before you, that you'll flit from
thing to thing with ....
A new paragraph, not originally included in the core synthesis, looks like this:
You will unlock your experiences when you give of
yourself for the pleasure of giving-giving money,
time, friendship, affection, love .....
Hal Allen's
complete
step-by-step
delineation
19i
198
STEP 1
PART 111: THE MODIFIERS
NUMEROLOGY DELINEATION
FOR
HARLAN WILLIAM ALLEN
BORN MAY 12,1941
DERIVE THE ELEMENTS OF THE CORE.
The calculations for core and modifiers replaces this original
step in the core synthesis. The calculations are shown on the
calculation sheet on page 194.
STEP 2
EXPRESS THE CENTRAL FOCUS OF THE 5 LIFE PATH.
The central focus remains fixed, irrespective of all modifiers.
The original paragraph is unchanged.
The central focus of your life is learning the exhilaration of the constructive use of freedom. Life
is full of exciting opportunities for you-there can
be much variety, change, unusual happenings,
unusual people, unforeseen adventure. You will
find that you are capable at almost any task, that
you are talented in a number of directions. The
world is your oyster-there are exciting things to
do at every turn-and that undoubtedly is the difficulty. You must learn how to pick and choose;
how to seek experiences which will be of benefit,
how to discard those things that are not working,
how to profit from every experience. You must
learn not to waste your time or scatter your forces,
not to get lost in purely physical delights-food,
sex, drink or drugs. It can be sheer delight to be a
rolling stone, but the frustration of moving from
place to place, from person to person, from opportunity to opportunity may eventually overwhelm
the delight.
STEP 3
EXPRESS THE SUB-FOCUS OF THE 3 BIRTHDAY.
While you're learning how to use freedom, learn
the joy of expressing yourself. Give of yourself,
openly, warmly, with delight. learn, too, to express
CHAPTER 21: SYNTHESIS
yourself, using your good imagination, your ar
tistic abilities, but especially, your ability .... ¢ith
words.
Note that a portion of the original paragraph above has been
deleted since similar material is covered in the added
paragraph below. We're trying to minimize the repetition
throughout.
Add the five 3s Intensity Point (CHART 8: THE INTENSITY TABLE)
. and the 3 Prime Intensifier (CHART 8: THE INTENSITY TABLE)
here.
These predominantly positive modifiers are added here to the
positive energy of the 3 Birthday. These modifiers could have
been included in Step 7: Characteristics of the Birthday.
They're included here instead because I wanted to start the
reading on a strong positive note. Theres going to be a lot of
negative energy expressed in this delineation-the 14/5 Karmic
Debt in particular. If you begin the reading very positively, the
subject is likely to be more receptive when the going gets rough.
Learn, too, to express your superior talents in
music, art or writing, reinforced by your excellent
creative imagination. In particular, you're likely to
have a strong,capability with words-your verbal
and written self-expression may be one of the
areas where you really shine. Your creative talent,
imagination and verbal abilities are probably among your most obvious strong traits.
If you scatter your energies or act immoderately
(and you do have these tendencies), you'll be
working against your own best interests.
The description of the 3,6,9 group is omitted from the delineation because it covers the same material as these 3 modifiers.
STEP 4
EXPRESS THE HARMONY OR DISCORD OF THE 5 LIFE
PATH/3 BIRTHDAY ASPECT.
The paragraph is deleted. Its essentially repeating a portion of
Step 3.
199
20(J PART III: THE MODIFIERS
Your ability to give of yourself in social situations
as well as with creative expression most likely
with words 'i .... ill help in 'q'q'orking to'ward an aware
ness of the constructive use of freedom.
STEP 5
DETERMINE THE HARMONY OR DISCORD OF THE 5
LIFE PATH/6 ,EXPRESSION AND THE 5 LIFE PATH/9
SOUL URGE ASPECTS,
There's no description included here,
STEP 6
EXPRESS THE CHARACTERISTICS OF THE 5 LIFE
PATH.
The 14/5 Karmic Debt (CHART 7: THE KARMIC DEBT) describes
obstacles to be overcome. The existence of the Karmic Debt is
explained in the paragraph below.
The major negative effects of the Debt are described in Step 8.
The configuration of your chart indicates that you
started out in life with some blockages which must
be overcome before you 'can make the most of
your strong positive potential. I can't tell whether
you've already overcome the obstacles-some
people manage it early in life, others spend a good
number of years struggling with the impediments.
Since the Karmic Debt blocks the early growth of the potentials, the first two original paragraphs are deleted and
~eplaced by new paragraphs reflecting the ultimate development of the potential rather than the immediate use of the
energy at birth.
Remember that Harlan is in his forties at the time of the
reading and has probably overcome some of the Karmic Debt
obstructions. There's no way to read at precisely what age the
various obstacles have been or will be constructively managed.
You are probably versatile and active and can do
almost anything with superior talent. Although
you are interested' in the new, different or pro
gressive, you usually proceed here 'with a',¢areness
of your responsibilities and concern for others.
CHAPTER 21: SYNTHESIS
Here are some of the strong positive potentials
you may be using now or can ultimately develop:
You'll be able to show your versatility and do almost anything with superior talent. Your interest in
the new, different or progressive will be balanced
with your awareness of your responsibilities and
concern for others.
You are apt to be clever, with an inborn ability to
accomplish what you want. You may be a quick
thinker v¢ith a good ability to analyze, although
that ability isn't always used to further your best
interests.
You can learn to use your cleverness along with
your inborn ability to accomplish what you want.
You'll be able to use your quick thinking and good
ability to analyze to further your best interests.
Delete the paragraph below and don't replace it with a new
paragraph. The restlessness, etc.· are considerably aggravated
by the Karmic Debt, but the potentially erratic nature is fully
covered in Step 8.
Although you sometimes have feelings of restless
ness,imp.ati:ence and the desire to try something
new, these feelings are tempered by your desire
for balance in 'y'our life and those around you as
well as your concern for giving to others.
The original paragraph below is deleted and replaced by a
paragraph reflecting th~ erratic nature emphasized by the
Karmic Debt.
Although you love change and enjoy travel and
adventure, you are also capable of routine tasks
demanded by your sense of responsibility. At
times, these traits may produce feelings of con
f+icl:
Early in life, your ability to perform the routine
tasks demanded by your sense of responsibility is
likely to conflict with your free spirit. You'll have
to learn how to deal more comfortably with this
work.
201
202 PART III: THE MODIFIERS
The last three original paragraphs of this step describe traits
which are likely to shine despite the handicap of the Debt, but
the Debt is likely to create some problems so that the full
brilliance of the described characteristics is somewhat restricted. The three replacement paragraphs clarify this state of
affairs.
You are probably a delightful companion and can
inspire and delight with your enthusiasm. You may
occasionally have to temper your sudden impulses
to change direction.
rd expect that people's view of you as a delightful
companion, bubbling over with new plans and enthusiasm, is one of your strongest potentials. You
probably have to learn, though, to temper your
sudden impulses to change direction.
You are enthusiastic. You tackle each new expe
rience with renewed enthusiasm.
Your enthusiasm, too, is a strong potential, but
you probably have to work to curb the excessively
whimsical, inconsistent or unpredictable outbursts
of your spirit.
·You tend to express eternal youth. The excitement
of life keeps you young.
You tend to express eternal youth. Although the
excitement of life keeps you young, you may have
to learn to distinguish between youthfulness and
childishness.
STEP 7
EXPRESS THE CHARACTERISTICS OF THE 12 BIRTHDAY.
Omit the phrase covering creative talent since this is welldescribed in Step 3.
Omit the last sentence. The scattering is considerably aggravated by the 14/5 Karmic Debt. The potentially erratic nature is
fully explored in Step 8.
You are probably good with words. You \>·i'ork well
using your original strongly creative approach.
CHAPTER 21: SYNTHESIS
You usually express the joy of living. People are
likely to see you as cheerful, friendly and sociable,
a good conversationalist, full of energy. You have
a good mind. You're likely to be affectionate, loving and sensitive. Your strong feelings may cause
occasional rapid ups and downs and you may tend
to repress these feelings in business. You usually
have many interests, so you're likely to scatter
your energy.
STEP 8
DISCUSS THE NEGATIVE EXPRESSION OF THE 5 LIFE
PATH.
This step describes the negative effect· of the major negative
modifier-the 14/5 Karmic Debt.
As if that wasn't bad enough, we have three additional
negative modifiers in this step:
a. The 5 Life Path/5 sub-element aspect, discussed just
below.
b. The four 1 's Intensity Point, diScussed at the end of the step.
c. The 1 Challenge, also discussed at the end of the step.
These four negative modifiers are all grouped with the 5
energy, and this step is where all their negative potential is
described. Thi§ is Vrn40ubtedly the most negative portion of the
entire delineation. The impediments should be expressed as
constructively as possible so as not to overwhelm the subject.
Always indicate some positive action that will help alleviate the
difficulties.
The 5 Life Path/5 sub-element aspect (CHART 6: THE ASPECTS)
describes two possible negative directions: (1) freedom used
carelessly, or (2) fear of freedom. The first possibility, similar to part of the 14/5 Karmic Debt, is discussed later in this
step. The second possibility occurs infrequently, but should be
mentioned.
The original first paragraph of this step describes this fear of
freedom and the added paragraph comments on its rarity~
When you are hesitant about using your freedom,
it may seem easier to retreat into a safe and stable
situation. When you do this, the changes and
uncertainty will· still be there, but you'll probably
have difficulty dealing with them.
,
~
203 " ~ ~
~
~ F.
"
~
~
~ r.
8~
0 t·~
~ ,51
~
"1
~
,.~
1~ ".
.,
::0:
:0.;.
~ :I,
.:.
~
:<j.
~ I::
~
~ ~.
~
;":
\
",'
204 PART III: THE MODIFIERS
There's not too much chance that you'll be afraid
of freedom and retreat like this. If you do, though,
you certainly won't be learning how to overcome
the obstructions.
The original paragraph below is deleted . .
There's a chance that you'll be so exhilarated with
the opportunties before you, that you'll jump from
thing to thing \Nith maddening speed, lost in over
indulgence or erratic behavior. This is apt to bring
much frustration.
. . and replaced with four paragraphs describing the negative
effect of the 14/5 Karmic Debt (CHART 7: THE KARMIC DEBT). Note
that the problems covered in the first two paragraphs are the
same problems that result from the 5·5 aspect.
You're likely, particularly in your early years, to go
from activity to activity with maddening speed,
changing direction at the drop of a hat. At the
least, your actions will tend toward the erratic.
You can't move ahead constructively until you've
learned to tone down this side of your nature.
Jumping around, with little sense of accomplish-
. ment or accountability, works against you.
Your tendency to overindulgence in eating, sensuality, liquor or drugs also gets in the way of forward progress. Learn to curb your appetite for
excessive physical stimulation.
You must learn the important lesson of change: to
begin to nurture an interest or relation, to experience it in full bloom, to detach from it when it
is completed. This is likely to be a difficult lesson.
Instead of appreciating the beauties which enter
(and leave) your life, you may be beset with disappointment at losses which are either beyond your
control or caused by your lack of awareness.
You can approach your positive potential when
CHAPTER 21: SYNTHESIS
you overcome these obstacles and, also, learn to
profit from your experience instead of repeating
mistakes. Until you shift to a positive direction,
you are likely to meet delays or losses.
The original paragraph below is deleted . . .
These negative expressions are unproductive. They
should be avoided in order to proceed construc
tively ' .... ith your development.
. . . and replaced with this paragraph explaining why the subject
faces so many handicaps.
Your problems with freedom and overindulgence
are payments in this life to balance a Karmic Debt
developed from a misuse of freedom in a previous
life.
These new paragraphs below complete Step 8. They cover a
combined description of the four 1s Intensity Point (CHART 8:
THE INTENSITY TABLE) and the 1 Challenge (CHART 9: THE
CHALLENGEITHE GROWTH NUMBER).
There are some problem areas not related to the
Karmic Debt.
A part of you tends to be self-centered with strong
interests that must be ·satisfied. This self-centered
part tends to control and dominate, but the domination usually offends others.
In your early years, you may have felt dominated
by people with strong influence, probably parents
or others on whom you were dependent. You may
have felt that your desires weren't being met, your
needs opposed. To feel less restricted, you may
have tried to please everyone, but you're not likely
to have found much satisfaction in that endeavor.
You probably ended up displeased yourself as well
as confused and resentful.
Using the courage of your convictions in taking
care of your own needs should have helped. You
205
206 PART 11/: THE MODIFIERS
probably have to remain watchful to protect yourself from domination, but dominating others is certainly not the answer.
You can exhibit much courage and independent
feelings, often in the face of great 'difficulties, but
your potential to use your original ideas and leadership abilities for positive ends may be stifled by
your self-centered lack of awareness.
Step 8 is undoubtedly the most complex part of the delineation;
Be sure you understand the derivation of all the material.
With the completion of Step 8, we've completed the portion of
the reading devoted to the 5 Life Path and its related energies.
Now, we move on to the 6 Expression and its related potential.
There are five modifiers related to the 6 Expression. The 3,6,9
group description can be omitted since the description would
only repeat information already covered in Step3. The remaining modifiers are either neutral or add difficulties along with
the energy to resolve the problems-a far cry from the deep
negativity of Step 8.
STEP 9
EXPRESS THE ABILITIES OF THE 6 EXPRESSION.
Add a new portion at the beginning of the original paragraph
asa transition from the 5 Life Path to the 6 Expression description.
Along with the part of you that's a free spirit,
there's another completely different side of you
-the you are probably a responsible, helpful and
conscientious person. You have the ability to rectify
and balance inharmonious situations and you would
be available to give help and comfort to those in
need. You would work well where the care of the
old, young or sick are involved. You probably show
concern for the betterment of the community. ¥ett
are apt to possess creative and artistic talents .
. Delete the last sentence above. It's similar to Step 3. The next
original paragraph remains unchanged.
CHAPTER 21: SYNTHESIS
It's possible that you're not using or developing all
of these capabilities at this time. Some of your
talents may have been used in the earlier part of
your life and some may still be latent. Be aware of
your capabilities, so that you can make use of
them at appropriate times.
STEP 10
EXPRESS THE HARMONY OR DISCORD OF THE 5 LIFE
PATH/6 EXPRESSION ASPECT.
The original paragraphs remain unchanged.
You are probably exhilarated by all the exciting
opportunities and adventures so often present in
your life. It may be difficult, at times, to give up
this excitement to satisfy your responsibilities.
There may even be times when you want to shirk
these responsibilities or give them up altogether to
enjoy the excitement of freedom.
Ignoring your responsibilities will probably not be
very satisfying for you. You have to find some way
to satisfy the adventurous side of your nature and,
at the same time, enjoy the pleasures you receive
when you express the responsible, conscientious
side. You may find that an out-of-the-ordinary job
may be._he~p.fu~ in balancing the quiet stability you
may desire in a close family. Or, you might plan
exciting trips or follow some unusual avocations
to offset the solid, respectable job which gives you
satisfaction.
STEP 11
EXPRESS THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THE 5 LIFE PATH/6
EXPRESSION COMBINATION.
The original paragraph remains unchanged.
You have the potential to take advantage of the
opportunities presented with relative ease, to
make the most of the experiences which come
your way. Your natural abilities will probably find
ample field for expression. The environment will
allow your talents to be displayed and appreciated. As your capabilities find the opportunities
20i
(
.,
.~.
"
208 PART III: THE MODIFIERS
to expand to meet their potential, your development will progress in a manner which may bring
you much satisfaction.
STEP 12
DETERMINE THE HARMONY OR DISCORD OF THE 6
EXPRESSION/5 LIFE PATH AND THE 6 EXPRESSION/9
SOUL URGE ASPECTS.
There's no description included here.
STEP 13
EXPRESS THE POSITIVE ATTITUDES OF THE 6 EXPRESSION.
The four modifiers related to the 6 Expression are all included
in this step. Their effect is to significantly increase Hal's capabilities beyond what was apparent in the description of the core
alone.
The first original paragraph remains .
When you are involved closely with people, you
are probably most loving, friendly and appreciative of others, as well as very sympathetic, kind,
generous and understanding. There may be times,
though, when you prefer not to be involved at all.
. enhanced by some of the characteristics described by the 2
Karmic Lesson (CHART 8: THE INTENSITY TABLE) ...
You're likely to find yourself in situations where
a sensitive nature, along with a diplomatic manner
are imperative for positive development. You were
probably born with an innate ability to express
these traits .
. . and with Hal's sensitivity highlighted, because of the 2
Maturity Number (CHART 10: THE MATURITY NUMBER).
Now that you're in your forties, you may want to
reevaluate the satisfactions you've derived from
your sensitivity. Have you developed so that your
strong sensitivity can be comfortably used? Have
you learned how to say and do what you need
without feeling your sensitivity compromised? Do
CHAPTER 21: SYNTHESIS
shyness or uncertainty block you from a full expression of your sensitivity?
At this time in your life, you may want to revise
some of your attitudes and actions in order to better express your sensitivity and to better receive
others' friendship and affection as a reward for
that expression.
The second original paragraph remains . .
Although you may well be involved in domestic
activities, you may feel the pressures of these
responsibilities conflicting with your own need for
individuality. The resolution of this conflict (or the
lack of resolution) will determine how good a husband and parent you are .
. enhanced by the characteristics described by the 6 Modified Karmic Lesson (CHART 8: THE INTENSITY TABLE).
You'll be capable of balancing, adjusting, harmonizing, serving others, and will show these traits
strongly in marriage and parenting situations
where these abjlities are likely to be necessary to ,.
keep affairs running smoothly. You're likely to
have much responsibility to carry, but you're willing and able to carry it. Family and friends will depend on you for support, and you'll be there when
needed.
This is a good place for a brief description of the 6 Secret Self.
You probably have a dream of being part of a loving family-an adoring wife and children-in a
beautiful home, with you as the guiding spirit.
And here's the last original paragraph to complete Step 13.
You are probably extremely open and honest with
others.
209
210 PART III: THE MODIFIERS
STEP 14
EXPRESS THE NEGATIVE ATTITUDES OF THE 6 EXPRESSION.
The original paragraphs remain unchanged.
There is the possibility that you may be too exacting of yourself and willing to sacrifice yourself (or
your family) for the welfare of others, but your
strong individual needs will probably mitigate this
attitude.
At times, you may have substantial difficulty distinguishing helping from interfering.
Although you may express worry and anxiety, you
are apt to try and cover these feelings and look at
the bright side instead.
The expression of your individual needs will probbably keep you from becoming a drudge because
of excessive involvement with your responsibilities.
With the completion of Step 14, we've completed the portion
of the reading devoted to the 6 Expression and its related
energies. Now, we move on to the 9 Soul Urge and its related
potential.
There are only two modifiers related to the 9 Soul Urge. The
9 Growth Number adds a strong note to Step 15. The 11 Maturity Number is mentioned in passing in Step 21.
STEP 15
EXPRESS THE MOTIVES OF THE 9 SOUL URGE.
The question here serves as a transition from the 6 Expression
to the 9 Soul Urge.
What are your deep inner motivations?
The original paragraph remains unchanged.
Your inner nature wants to give of itself to
others- usually in a humanitarian or philanthropic
manner. You probably want to give much of
friendship, affecton, love. You may want to give
CHAPTER 21: SYNTHESIS
your knowledge and experience. You may also
want to share with others your artistic or creative
talents. It's possible that these talents are of considerable magnitude.
The description of the 9 Growth Number (CHART 9: THE CHALLENGEITHE GROWTH NUMBER) fits well here.
You will help expand your development when you
give of yourself for the pleasure of giving-giving
money, time, friendship, affection, love, understanding, sympathy. You must give with little expectation of return or reward. Allow the needs of
others to take precedence over your personal ambitions. This seemingly difficult direction can
bring the deepest of satisfactions. You have a
good deal of energy tending in this direction.
STEP 16
EXPRESS THE HARMONY OR DISCORD OF THE 5 LIFE
PATH/9 SOUL URGE ASPECT.
The original paragraph remains unchanged, although it resembles Step 10. (In an advanced delineation, Steps 10 and 16
would be combined.)
Although'your inner nature feels the need to give
to others, you may often feel torn between this
need and your stronger need to explore the exhilarating opportunities that present themselves for
your personal development. You must learn to
balance these ()pposing energies to avoid the
frustration of missing an adventure or the sadness
of not being available to those in need of your
help.
STEP 17
EXPRESS THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THE 5 LIFE PATH/9
SOUL URGE COMBINATION.
The original paragraph remains unchanged.
Although you are able to recognize your opportunities, you find somewhat fewer possibilities
than you would like to advance your inner devel211
212 PART Ill: THE MODIFIERS
opment. The experiences at hand, while not necessarily presenting opportunities to fulfill your inner
needs, are apt to act as a secondary motivating
force. Make the most of these experiences. Learn
to accept the natural pace of your development.
STEP 18
EXPRESS THE HARMONY OR DISCORD OF THE 6 EXPRESSION/9 SOUL URGE ASPECT.
The original paragraphs remain unchanged.
Your natural talent at being helpful and able to
balance inharmonious situations will be substantially aided by your inner need to give to others,
often without thought of yourself. You may be
much concerned with the betterment of the community and capable of assisting in that betterment.
You are apt to be strongly motivated to develop
your creative expressive talents.
STEP 19
EXPRESS THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THE 6 EXPRESSION/9 SOUL URGE COMBINATION.
The original paragraph remains unchanged .
. Your motivation sometimes seems to outrun your
abilities. Although you have many ideas, your
natural talents don't necessarily help to advance
these ideas. Learn to be content with the realization that it will take more time than you would
prefer to fulfill your inner desires.
STEP 20
REVIEW THE HARMONY OR DISCORD OF THE 6 LIFE
PATH/9 SOUL URGE AND 6 EXPRESSION/9 SOUL URGE
ASPECTS.
There's no description included here.
STEP 21
EXPRESS THE POSITIVE ATTITUDES OF THE 9 SOUL
URGE.
Delete the first original paragraph since it's essentially repeating a part oj Step 13.
CHAPTER 21: SYNTHESIS
\A/hen you are concerned about others, you are
very sympathetic, generous and kind. At these
times, your sensitive nature expresses much love,
compassion and tolerance. There may be times,
though, when you prefer not to be involved at all.
Include this original paragraph.
You possess a deep, intuitive understanding of life,
innate wisdom, good intuition and a broad point
of view.
Add this brief paragraph to describe the 11 Maturity Number
(CHART 10: THE MATURITY NUMBER). As we mentioned in
Chapter 16, there's only a small chance that the energy related
to this Maturity Number will be activated.
At this time in your life, you may begin to be aware of the spiritual world and the relation of that
world to the material world.
Include this original paragraph.
You are capable, at times, of expressing high ideals
and an inspirational approach. You are capable of
being self-sacrificing, but this trait is apt to conflict with your love of freedom.
Omit this paragraph. It's a repetition of part of Steps 15 and
16. .. '- ,.('.,.
You can give freely without being concerned a
bout any return, although your desire to give may
cause conflicts with your self centered needs.
STEP 22
EXPRESS THE NEGATIVE ATTITUDES OF THE 9 SOUL
URGE.
The original paragraphs remain unchanged.
You may be far too sensitive, extremely emotional
with your emotions expressed very strongly.
You probably suffer from the conflict between
your high spiritual aims and your need for freedom
and personal expansion.
At times, you 'probably resent the necessity of
giving. At times, when your giving conflicts with
213
214 PART III: THE MODIPIERS
your own needs, you may not give, but you'll be
dissatisfied anyway.
Sometimes you're disappointed in the lack of perfection in yourself and others.
Your tendency to be quite moody and critical at
times is usually offset by your freedom-loving
delight.
We've now completely described all the core elements and
the related modifier energies . We'll add an additional step to
describe modifier energies not related to the core elements.
STEP 23
DESCRIBE THE MISCELLANEOUS ENERGY.
Under Miscellaneous Energy in the delineation outline, we have
only the 7 Karmic Lesson. You may remember from Chapter 12,
that the 7 Karmic Lesson is present for most individuals but,
unless accompanied by other 7 energy, doesn't need to be
described. Therefore, in Hal's case, the Karmic Lesson description is omitted.
We'll add two additional steps to describe the directing
modifiers.
STEP 24
. DESCRIBE THE TEMPERAMENT .
. Hal has a strong Mental component, average Physical and Emotional components and a weak Intuitive component.
The Temperament description is based on Chapter 19.
You have a reasonably well-balanced temperament (Strong Mental, average Physical and Emotional,
weak Intuitive), so most of your energy is likely to
be used. The only parts that are not likely to be
developed would be those portions having to
do with spiritual, psychic or metaphysical matters
(weak Intuitive component), and those make up only
a small part of your basic potential. I would not
f
•
:i
i
CHAPTER 21: SYNTHESIS
expect you to fully develop your understanding
of life on a deep intuitive level (9 Soul Urge, weak
Intuitive component), or to completely express an
inspirational approach to your activities (9 Soul
Urge, weak Intuitive component). In your mature
years, there is the possibility of increasing your
awareness of the spiritual world (11 Maturity Number), but I'd be surprised if you work on this very
much (weak Intuitive component).
I'd expect a good deal of emphasis on mental matters- matters that deal with reason, logic and
facts (strong Mental component). I'd expect you to
come up with a lot of original intellectual ideas
(5 Life Path, strong Mental component), and these
may be instrumental in demonstrating your leadership abilities (four 1's Intensity Point). You're likely
to use your strong verbal abilities (jive 3's Intensity
Point, 3 Prime Intensifier) to communicate your superior grasp of facts and reasons (strong Mental
component), along with your feelings (average
Emotional comp.onent) . .. ,_ ._c' ....
Your ability to be helpful, to balance and harmonize situations (6 E~pression) is probably expressed
in a clear, reasoned way (strong Mental component). Your work with the old, young or sick (6
Expression) may involve organizing along with political or business activities (strong Mental component).
You may show your humanitarian ways (9 Soul
Urge) by expressing your sympathy and understanding (average Emotional component), or by
physically caring for others (average Physical
component), but I suspect that you may stress an
intellectual orientation (strong Mental component)
- by writing and speaking for causes in which you
believe, for instance (five 3's Intensity Point, 3
Prime Intensifier).
215
216 PART Ill: THE MODIFIERS
You're good at taking care of the details (2 Karmic
Lesson) and you're likely to handle them in a reasonable and logical manner (strong Mental component).
Your sensitivity (6 Expression, 2 Maturity Number)
is likely to contribute to your ability to help others
because of your fine grasp of the facts of a situation (strong Mental component).
STEP 25
DESCRIBE THE APPROACH TO EXPERIENCE.
The description is based on the First Letter H (CHART 11: THE
FIRST LETTER), and the First Vowel A (CHART 12: THE FIRST
LETTER).
The first paragraph lists traits which limit the experience. The
last three paragraphs list characteristics which enhance the
experience.
Those last paragraphs are important in concluding the delineation on a strong positive note.
You are likely to approach some of your life experiences with vacillating thoughts (H) and an inabil-
. ity to marshal your forces for maximum impact
(A). This emphasis stresses your changeable nature
(14/5 Karmic Debt) and tends to limit your
experience.
I'd expect, though, that you approach much of
your experience with a more positive direction
(more A and H traits are positive rather than negative). I'd expect that you approach a good deal of
experience as an executive or leader (H), using
your good mind and creative mentality (A), tending to promote quietly in a progressive manner (A),
with originality and innovation (A).
Your approach is likely to often stress your selfstarting capability (A) and the high-level consciousness which allows you to meet situations
with an extreme awareness of the material world
CHAPTER 21: SYNTHESIS
along with the possibility of achieving material
success- money, power, status (H).
In addition, your approach stresses your ability
to work well with others (H) using your keen perception of people and events (H) as well as your
sensitivity and idealism (A). All these positive emphases in your approach will tend to enhance your
experience.
For this delineation, sixteen of the eighteen modifiers in the
delineation outline on pages 195-6 were added to the core
elements. (The description of the 3,6,9 group was omitted as
explained in Step 3, and the 7 Karmic Lesson was omitted as
explained in Step 23.) Approximately half of the original steps
in the core synthesis were revised, some significantly, and three
additional steps were added.
Do you remember the summary of the core synthesis in
Chapter 7?
Harlan William Allen, born May 12, 1941, is an active, versatile,' freedom-loving person with much
excitement and adventure in his life, enhanced by
his expression of the joy of living. He has the capability of being responsible, loving and giving. He
must learn to balance the somewhat self-centered
exhilaration he finds in freedom with his inner
need to give much to others in the way of friendship, love and affection. He has the potential for
artistic or creative endeavor.
A summary of the delineation with core and modifiers reads
like this: (The additions to the original summary are underlined.)
Harlan William Allen, born May 12,1941, has the
potential to be an active, versatile freedom-loving
person with much excitement and adventure in his
life. He must fir.st overcome his early tendencies to
be erratic and overindulge in physical pleasures.
He must also learn to profit from his mistakes and
Use of
modifiers,
in
Hal Allen's
delineation
Core
summary
Core and
modifier
summary
217
218 PART III: THE MODIFIERS
live comfortably with change. He can enhance
his life by his expression of the joy of living.
He has the capability of being responsible and
he'll have more responsibility than may seem a
fair share. He's loving, giving, tactful, diplomatic
and sensitive, but he does tend, at times, to be
controlling and dominating. He'll unlock his experiences. when he gives for the pleasure of giving
with no expectation of reward or return.
Hal must learn to balance the somewhat self-centered exhilaration he finds in freedom with his
inner need to give much to others in the way of
friendship, love and affection. He probably has
superior talents in writing-a strong capability
with words-and he has the potential for considerable artistic and creative endeavor.
His basic viewpoint stresses a strong mental disposition. When he's approaching experiences positively, he emphasizes his leadership, creativity,
awareness of the material world and ability to
work well with others.
Commentary . Before proceeding to Part IV and advanced delineations in
Volume 2, I think it would be advisable to concentrate on
doing some readings as completely as we've done Hal
Allen's-perhaps your own, some members of your family or a
few close friends. Read for people you know well, so you can
. appreciate the correlation between the delineation and real
life. For these readings, first synthesize the core as we did in
Chapter 7-then add the modifiers as we did here.
I'll be the first to admit that there are a lot of fine points and
a lot of details to think about and clarify. When we get to the
advanced delineations, we'll learn how to arrive at a complete
reading with a far easier flow than in this chapter. The easier
flow, though, will, to a significant extent, be a product of an
understanding of the individual modifiers and their relation to
the completed delineation. If you take your time and build a
. solid foundation here, the advanced readings will be easier to
handle and the whole field of numerology will, I expect, prove
remarkably accessible.
~.
.. ( .. ).
THE
REFERENCE
CHARTS
THE REFERENCE CHARTS -
CHART 1: THE NUMBERS-BASICS 222
See Chapter 2
CHART 2: THE LIFE PATH 236
See Chapter 3
CHART 3: THE EXPRESSION 250
See Chapter 4
CHART 4: THE SOUL URGE 264
See Chapter 5
CHART 5: THE BIRTHDAY 278
See Chapter 6
CHART 6: THE ASPECTS 292
See Chapter 7
CHART 7: THE KARMIC DEBT 306
See Chapter 11 ,_ .• r- ',).
CHART 8: THE INTENSITY TABLE 312
See Chapter 12
CHART 9: THE CHALLENGE/
THE GROWTH NUMBER 326
See Chapters 14 and 15
CHART 10: THE MATURITY NUMBER 340
See Chapter 16
CHART 11: THE FIRST LETTER 354
See Chapter 20
CHART 12: THE FIRST VOWEL 368
See Chapter 20
221
I
I
i 222 REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 1
'I CHART 1 THE NUMBERS-BASICS i[--I --------;~ ~ 9:,
,j
~ ~
THE NUMBERS-THE BASICS 223
The brief descriptions of all the numbers are simiiar to the descriptions in
CHAPTER 2. See pages 12-14 of that chapter for a discussion of the relations among the numbers.
,f,!~,~t.~~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------,ODD NUMBERS
Concerned with the individual alone.
Related to relatively abstract concepts.
Involved with more idealistic endeavors.
~.;>,
~--------------------------------------------------------------------------~) '~
EVEN NUMBERS
Concerned with the ·relation of the individual to the group.
Related to relatively practical concepts.
Involved with more mundane endeavors.
:..."
'?~
I 224 REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 1
"Ii--------------------------------t:
i CHARTl 1 INDIVIDUATION ~:~: INDEPENDENCE e
ATT AINMENT "
NUMBERS-BASICS ~ ~~--------------------~--------------------------------------------------~;~
ODD NUMBER
A person must distinguish himself from other people and acknowledge
his own INDIVIDUATION. The individual has to develop the capability
of standing on his own and going from dependence to INDEPENDENCE.
Once independent, the person becomes aware of his potential for ATTAINMENT as an individual-for creating and pioneering when working
alone-to leading and managing as an individual working with others.
~
~
~ ~
;
.~ f----+--------------------------------~-----------------------------------~, ,EVEN NUMBER :,:
~,Ii "'
,~-+-----------------------------------------------------------~
THE NUMBERS-THE BASICS 225
:f-! ----------------------------------------jI CHART 1 2 RELATION ~i,:'I
COOPERATION,NUMBERS-BASICS i~----------J:-----------------------------~~ ODD NUMBER
~.;
I--+--------------------------------------,~~:~
EVEN NUMBER
-Independence is important but has its limitations. There are other people all about, and another lesson involves being a meaningful part of a
group-a small group like family or friends, a larger group like a business
or community . The person must learn adaptability, service, consideration
for others, i.e, the meaning of a RELATION with others, the idea of
COOPERATION.
/
j
~-
I.:
226 REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 1 l ~:i_ -------------------------------------------1:
i i II, CHARTl 3 ~ EXPRESSION ,
NUMBERS-BASICS JOY OF LIVING ! --- ~------------------------~l ~----------~ :
ODD NUMBER
A person must discover, both as an individual and as a group member,
his capability of EXPRESSION: (1) artistic expression-writing, painting, sculpting, singing or any of the many other means of expressing
inner thoughts and emotions, and (2) expression of feelings toward
others-friendship, affection, love. The JOY OF LIVING can be expressed with optimism and enthusiasm. There can be a purity, even a
naivete here. (This is, perhaps, the most enjoyable lesson of all the
numbers.)
~
.'
~j
~-+------------------------------------~~. ~ EVEN NUMBER
~: THE NUMBERS-THE BASICS 227 ~'-f-: ---------------------------------------i>, ICHARTl LIMITATION ~4 ORDER "SERVICE 'jNUMBERS-BASICS ~- L ,--_________ ----l r--------------------------~,~ODD NUMBER
~?~~1,j~"r:.'
,~,
f--+--------------------------------------~-'> .~.
EVEN NUMBER
. Life doesn't always present opportunities for singing and laughing. Life
doesn't always appear expansive or yours for the taking. Often, it feels just
the opposite. The individual must learn the difficult law of LIMIT ATION. Everyone has limitations-limitations presented by the environment, by the physical body, by the restrictions of the individual's viewpoints. Rather than struggle against these limits, it is necessary to learn to
live with them, to accept them and to make a meaningful existence, not
in spite of the limitations, but because of the limitations. It is a difficult
lesson. The individual embarking on this course must learn system and
organization, ORDER on a practical level. He must be prepared to be of
SERVICE to others.
i 228 REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 1 :j
1"""1 ---------------------------------------'\
i
L CHARTl
NUMBERS-BASICS 5 CONSTRUCTIVE FREEDOM
ODD NUMBER
There is a time for expansion, for dealing with change, unexpected happenings, adventure. This lesson usually gives a person an abundance of
talents in every direction, the capability of accomplishing almost anything
for which an opportunity is presented-and many opportunities are
presented. With the freedom that this abundance of talent and opportunity brings, life can be exciting. But the lesson is more difficult: the individual must learn the CONSTRUCTIVE use of FREEDOM. The individual must not waste his many talents or misuse his ongoing opportunitites; he must not get lost in solely physical desires-food, sex, alcohol,
drugs. He must not scatter his potential and end up with frustration. He
must make a meaningful existence by using freedom productively.
,,.}
:; r--~--------------------------------------::,
~ EVEN NUMBER
r--r--------------------------------------l
THE NUMBERS-THE BASICS 229
!~----------------------------------------------------------------------------
-
CHARTl
NUMBERS-BASICS
ODD NUMBER
6 BALANCE
RESPONSIBILITY
LOVE
,~ ~r-------------------------------------------------------------------------~' ~ '~ EVEN NUMBER
A person'must lea-rn to give the beauty of love and harmony, sympathy
and understanding, protection and BALANCE. Along with the balancing,
the lesson of RESPONSIBILITY can be a meaningful one. The individual
may find himself responsible for more than what rightly seems his share.
Others will recognize his strength, and he may be expected to help them if
they are in need and cannot help themselves. He will probably be the one
who holds the family together, who harmonizes and adjusts difficult situations. He may choose to limit himself to his family, his friends, possibly the
close community. The friendship and LOVE the individual expresses to
others will come back to him from those he helps. He can bask in the glory
of a job well done and the quiet reward of friendship and love returned.
The individual's capability at harmony and balance may also be expressed creatively-there is the possibility of artistic achievement.
.'. ~r-------------------------------------------------------------------------~i I
I - ~
! ~ ,:1 230 REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 1 ~ :!~ --------------------------------------------------~~----------------------~~ I ~ I CHART I ~ 7 ANALYSIS - UNDERSTANDING ~ NUMBERS-BASICS ~ ~ ODD NUMBER
There's a time for introspection, a time to subject all an individual
knows to mental ANALYSIS, so that eventually a person possesses much of
knowledge and UNDERSTANDING. Spiritual awareness is employed and
emphasis on material matters avoided. Desire for material accumulation
will probably lead the individual off the track, for this is a time for study
and meditation, a time to know oneself-in the deepest way.
There will be much time spent alone-the person must learn to be alone
and not feel isolated. Often, the individual will appear "different to
others. His way of thinking or doing may be very much his own and may
seem inexplicable to his fellow man. He must accept that he is on a different wavelength and find satisfaction in that. In a world where materialism rates so highly, the road for the counselor, the professor, the pure
researcher may be a difficult one.
~ ~ i3
~ ~ ~:; ;~ ~ :~l ~ :~ il
1~ ~ ~ ~ 'l
~ ~~ " 'i
:~ ,1
:;
ij
.i
:~ "
~: ,,~ :]:i ~ '~ ':
':.
~~. /,
~ I---+---------------------------------:~ EVEN NUMBER
'.
~~
'1
:;
~l
'q
i!
:.i
~ :;-
i :~ ~ ~ ~ :~ J~~ ,~ ,j
;;.
~ ~ ~ ~
I THE NUMBERS-THE BASICS 231 :.,.....1 ______________________________________ --'~:I CHARTl 8 MATERIAL SATISFACTION I. ::
NUMBERS-BASICS ~r--------------------------~------~J'--r-------------' ~ODD NUMBER 1\'
i{
.~
f-+--------------------------------~
EVEN NUMBER
The'individual must learn to deal with the material things of life, the
practical matters. He will find himself at home in the business
world-with much capability as an efficient administrator or executive.
He will learn how to handle money-how to accumulate it, how to spend
it wisely. The individual will work for MATERIAL SATISFACTION .
This may meim emphasis on money to buy the best in houses, cars, furnishings, trips. (Perhaps, if he can reach the highest level of this lesson, he
will see that material freedom can mean relying very little on money or
material matters. Few ever gain this insight.)
The individual will be very conscious of status in relation to material
things and will work to satisfy his need for status to prove his superiority.
He may appear single-minded, rigid or stubborn to others. Striving for
power and high material goals may make him aware of the limitations of
his ability or the restrictions of his circumstances .
~~
:~
~
i
i':-
~~
~.~
.,
~
!:!
(i.
~ ~
i-f----------------------------------------------') . ~~
~~
NUMBERS-BASICS
ODD NUMBER
9 SELFLESSNESS
HUMANIT ARIANISM
There's a time to learn the satisfaction of giving to his fellow man. This
is a difficult lesson. The satisfaction comes from the giving. There is little
reward-the love and friendship are sometimes returned, the obligation
often not repaid. The person must place all others before himself, must
give for the sheer pleasure of giving, because he has learned the ultimate
satisfaction of SELFLESSNESS and HUMANITARIANISM. The individual gives (1) by helping others or (2) by giving of himself in some form
of creative expression.
I-----l------------------------------------~:, EVEN NUMBER
,::.: ~,L-~~-------------------------------------:~i i
1,
i
I
I THE NUMBERS-THE BASICS 233
'.'I
~I ------------------------------------------------------------------------------~,
i CHARTI !NUMBERS-BASICS 11 ILLUMINATION ) ~----------------------------------~----------------~~ ~--------------------~ ~
ODD NUMBER
The master numbers exist on a higher spiritual plane than the single
digits. The first master number, the 11, must work to develop intuition, to
tune into psychic forces not available to those with lower numbers. He
must stand ready to be a channel with a message from above. In his life, he
must inspire by his own example, living in the way revealed to him,
spreading his ILLUMINATION for others to absorb and benefit. This
number is as difficult as it is rewarding.
Often, particularly at an early age, the individual is aware of his special
powers, yet unable to synthesize them for his own use or for the good of his
fellow man. He is often a relatively impractical idealist, far more a
dreamer than a doer. There is an undercurrent of nervous tension always
present from the high power sources to which the individual is attuned. He
has to learn to live with his special powers, to set himself aside from the
world of material accumulation in order to better understand the powerful
forces which can reveal a higher guidance.
EVEN NUMBER
•• ,_ •• (, \')0.
~ :;
:;,
.~ ~
1;~,
-
234 REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 1
CHARTl
NUMBERS-BASICS
22 MASTER BUILDER
ODD NUMBER
EVEN NUMBER
. The second master number, the 22, is potentially capable of combining
the idealism of the first master number, the 11, with the ability to put these
ideals into a concrete form. Enormous power is available to him to produce
on a significant scale, for the benefit of humanity. When this potential can
be realized, the individual becomes a MASTER BUILDER, capable of
feats well beyond all others.
Few with this number can marshal their forces to reach anywhere near
the ultimate potential. The individual is aware of the forces within him,
aware also of the nervous tension that accompanies these forces. He spends
his time grappling with powers that are difficult to comprehend and use.
Often, he is seen by his fellow men as a person with enormous potential
who has not, for some unexplained reason, been able to fully use his
capabilities. The highest potential is also the most difficult to reach.
,.r'
i
I
I
I 236 REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 2 I
1~---C-H-A-R-T-2---T-H-E-L-I-F-E-P-A-T-H---------------~-
THE LIFE PATH 237
r-.---------------------------------------~
CENTRAL FOCUS
The Life Path is the major lesson to be learned in this life-the defined
path which will provide the maximum in growth and development. This is
the most important part of the core of a reading. See Chapter 3, page 23.
':
~
~;
~ o~ ~ j~ '~ rr--------------------------------------~ CHARACTERISTICS
The outward manifestations of the Life Path. If the individual is expressing positively (and most people are), these characteristics should be readily
apparent. If any of the characteristics are not expressed or even visible in a
latent way, there is probably some negativity present.
NEGATIVE EXPRESSION
The,negative expression implies (1) the exaggeration of the lesson of the
Life Path so that the extreme expressed is unproductive, or (2) the denial
of the lesson of the Life Path in order to proceed in the opposite direction.
~ .'
'C .'
.~
,
;~
~
,4---------------------------------------,~ ,~
COMMENTARY ,.~
Elaboration of some of the subtleties involved on the Life Path.
!
-
238
CHART2
THE LIFE PATH
CENTRAL FOCUS
The subject must learn the benefits of independence-a two-part learning process. First, the individual must learn to stand on his own two feet,
learn not to lean on or depend on others. After the
subject is indeed free of dependence, he can .proceed to be a leader or creator. Once others sense
CHARACTERISTICS
• Much inner strength.
1
• Leadership capability.
• Executive and administrative capability-always obvious although sometimes latent in application.
• Potential for accomplishment and financial
reward-again obvious, although sometimes
latent in application.
• Strong personal needs and desires. Feels it
necessary to follow own convictions. Often surNEGATIVE EXPRESSION
A 1 still struggHng with dependence may appear
to be available at everyone's beck and call, with
few needs of his own. No matter how giving the 1
appears, underneath the giving there will be much
dissatisfaction with the dependent side. Often,
though, the dissatisfaction may be well hidden.
Some l's confuse independence and self-centeredness. They may be concerned with their own
needs to the virtual exclusion of all else. This type
of 1 may very well not know what is meant by selfcenteredness or may even justify his self-centered
REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 2
INDIVIDUATION
INDEPENDENCE
ATTAINMENT
the individual's independent capabilities, once he
can accept and use his talents, there are likely to
be substantial meaningful opportunities. Attainment of significant ends-material or otherwisecan follow.
prised at others' resistance or the consequences
of following own convictions .
• Self-centered. This may be extremely obvious,
or may be hidden by a social veneer. The 1 will
be very aware of the self-centeredness even if
it's not outwardly apparent.
• The material needs may be large or small-but
the 1 will spend the time' necessary to satisfy
these needs.
position with a rational argument. In glvmg a
reading to a 1 on whom there is no information,it
is probably useful to clarify the difference between
self-centeredness and independence.
Some l's, lacking a sense of balance, may be so
dominating and egotistical as to be their own
worst enemies. Sometimes thev burst with overconfidence, making them imp~tient with others'
advice, unable to listen and benefit from others'
opinions. "
B"
q-----+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~COMMENTARY
Some l's spend most of their lives shaking off
their dependent side. If this happens, they have
little time left to reap the reward of being independent. 1's, particularly in the first stages of their
life, often find themselves in situations where it is
easy to be dependent and difficult to be independent. It is up to each 1 to struggle through to the
second part of the lesson, where attainment can be
achieved.
An aware 1 operating positively within the basic
channel can be growing and experiencing much
satisfaction throughout the life. There is much
potential for accomplishment, achievement, creativity, and the potential is possible to reach (as
compared, for instance, to the difficult-to-attain
potential of the 11 or 22). The growing 1 can have
a continuing feeling of satisfaction in his progress
-and praise from others for his achievements.
Often, he can receive good financial compensation, can satisfy his material needs, can reach a
satisfying position of status.
.<~~~~~~2~,~,~," t;~~o1----f----------------------------------------------------------~-------------------------------1--
:
THE LIFE PATH
CHART2 2
THE LIFE PATH
CENTRAL FOCUS
The subject must learn the satisfaction of contributing his capability as an organizer and
facilitator in group situations. Here, although his
contribution is seen, it will rarelv receive full
acknowledgement. He must learn that his use of
quiet persuasion can accomplish as much as
another·s use of force. He must accept that his
good ideas will often be better spread by others
with more dynamism-that he can be the power
CHARACTERISTICS
• Sensitive to feelings of others.
• Cooperative. Capable of working patiently and
carefully, doing much detail work if necessary.
Rarely dominates a situation.
• Shows a great deal of consideration for others.
NEGATIVE EXPRESSION
A 2 sometimes refuses to accept the ri)le he is
asked to play. He feels ifs better to be an acknowledged leader than part of a group. His leading may
be adequate, but is rarely dynamic. Sometimes, in
a lead role, he will add confusion rather than harmony to a situation. He·1I never tmderstand why it
RELATION
COOPERATION
239
behind the throne. If the subject can be comfortable with others getting credit for his ideas-:-
thafs part of the lesson, too. .
The individual should develop his sensiti\'ity
and his skill at working with others to a high !e\"el.
The world will be a better place because of his
presence. He can glow quietly with the inner
satisfaction of a job well done"
• A good friend. Expresses. and receives friendship and love.
• Little concern with material needs or status.
Usuallv can den v himself if others can thereb\"
benefit.· .
happens that way, either. He·s likely to blame
others rather than himself.
Sometimes the 2, because of too much sensitivity, becomes shy and uncertain and contributes
little as a group participant. He may protect his
delicate ego by appearing apathetic or indifferent.
~--------------------------------------------------------------------------- ~ ~
~, ~
COMMENTARY
The key to growth and development for a 2 involves the control and balance of his sensitivity. He
must find the path where he is not so sensitive that
his feelings are constantly being hurt. His sensitivity to others must be so finely attuned that he
can be a friend, lover or diplomat in the highest
sense of these concepts.
It is too easy for the 2, trying his wings, to
retreat with pain from situations where others are
insentitive to him. He must learn how to deal with
others· insensitivities without being overwhelmed.
A 2 operating in the right channel experiences a
great deal of pleasure in life. He is the recipient of
much love and affection from others.
~ ~ ~ ~,
-
240
CHART2 3
THE LIFE PATH
CENTRAL FOCUS
The subject must learn the joy of expressing
himself. If he can be open, warm and full of
delight, he is likely to be admired by others and
desired as a pleasant companion. An easy lesson?
In many ways the easiest and most delightful
lesson: the experience of pure joy and the expression of that joy for others to share. It is the beginning of an appreciation of the beauty that can be
in the world.
The individual should become aware of his speCHARACTERISTICS
• Warm and friendly.
• Ver\' social. A weicome addition to any social
situ~tion. Knows how to make others' feel at
home.
• Good conversationalist. A delight to listen to,
and the ability to listen to others, too.
REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 2
EXPRESSION
JOY OF LIVING
cial talents. He probably has a good imagination
and artistic abilities to be developed. He can excel
in creative work-painting, sculpting, music, perhaps. Most likely his creativity will be seen where
verbal ability is important-in writing, acting or
similar endeavors. He can express the beauty he
experiences in his artistic work. His capability at
creative self-expression is the highest level of attainment in this lesson.
• Talent with words-speaking, writing, singing
or acting as possible vocations or avocations.
• Creative imagination, often latent. The 3 recognizes the possibilities but may not be moved
to develop the creativity.
i~ ----~----------------------------------------------------------------------------~~ NEGATIVE EXPRESSION
A 3 may be so delighted with the joy of living
that his life becomes frivolous and superficial. He
may scatter his abilities. and express little sense of
purpose.
When, on the other hand, he has difficulty
developing his given capabilities, he may retre~t
into himself. He may feel uncomfortable in social
situations, may prefer to hide his feelings rather
than express them. He may appear moody or taciturn. If he is hurt by others, he may be critical or
demeaning.' . ~~;j~------r------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------;~COMMENTARY
When a 3 is operating within the basic path, his
approach to life is likely to be exceedingly positive,
his disposition sunny. He seems to deal with problems with more ease than others. The 3's open
disposition accepts the existence of problems, yet
deals with them without being dragged to the
depths of despair. Even while working through
difficulties, the 3 will usually express warmth and
friendliness. When he expresses his problems openly, he can often deal with them seriously but
without rancor.
The 3 may mature later than others. His frivolity or moodiness may be difficult to shake. The
frivolous 3 is often a delight, but is seen as a dilettante and treated as such. The moody 3 appears as
an enigma because the cause of the moodiness is
often not clear. The 3 is on a special lighter track,
quite different from the other numbers. He may be
able to get little help from others in learning to
express his positive potential.
~$.J~~,
THE LIFE PATH 241
~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~:'CHART2 4 LIMITATION
ORDER
SERVICE
THE LIFE PATH
CENTRAL FOCUS
The subject must learn the advantage of order life-limitations of the environment, of his own
and system in accomplishing his work. He must physical body, of his individual viewpoint. Often,
also learn the rewards of service. He'll probably be the subject may feel that circumstances limit him
involved in practical, down-to-earth work. Hav- more than they limit others. He must learn how to
ing determined where his duty lies, he must pro- live not in spite of the limitations, but in harmony
ceed with the hard work at hand, patiently and with the limitations. He must learn to accept the
dependably. restrictions rather than struggle with them. His life
The subject must learn to live with the law of can then develop on a deep and beautiful path.
limitation. He will be aware of limitations in his
CHARACTERISTICS
• Practical. • Serious approach. Honest and sincere. Respon-
• Capable of systematizing and managing. Can sible.
produce order where little existed. • Strong likes and dislikes. Strong expression of
• Willingness to work long and hard. Much pa- what is right and wrong.
tience with detail. Very conscientious. Often • Fixity of approach. This can range from the
seems to do better with difficult problems than positive expression of great courage to the
with simpler work. Often seems to make the negative expression of extreme stubbornness.
work harder by his peculiar approach but, nev- Others see the 4 as somewhat rigid, but the 4
ertheless, is capable of completing the work. can rarely see that quality in himself.
,
NEGATIVE EXPRESSION
The negative 4canl~eoverwhelmed by his feel- expresses in bossiness and dominance. ;
ing of limitation. He will feel tied down and Occasionally, the 4 will express his dissatisfacfrustrated. Often the limitations stem from his tion with his Life Path by going in the opposite
own stubborn, obstinate manner and his rigid ap- direction. He will be disorganized and irresponproach, but he will be hard-pressed to see that he is sible, with little sense of time and virtually no accausing his own problems. Sometimes, his concen- countability to others. The chaos he creates around ~
tration on details to the exclusio'n of the bigger pic- him will further upset him, but he will not be able
ture limits his potential. His frustration sometimes to see himself as the cause. ,
"
COMMENTARY .;z
.'
This is a difficult lesson for many people. Few limitation will their lives become growing and i
individuals want to learn to live with limitations. vital. The acceptance of limitation is the beginning i-
:,
The usual reaction is to fight the restrictions rather of overcoming limitation as a negative part of the
than to accept them. life. Limitation is also often in the eye of the '<
All 4's feel the sense of limitation. Only when beholder. What feels limiting to a 4 may not look [;;
they recognize the positive values inherent in limiting to an outside observer. ~
~~
~: ,I
~'
"
~:.
i
I "
J jr--------------------------------------1
242 REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 2
I
I
i CHART2 5 I
I CONSTRUCTIVE FREEDOM L THE LIFE PATH
CENTRAL FOCUS
The subject must learn the exhilaration of the periences which will be of benefit: how to discard
constructive use of freedom. Life is full of exciting those activities that aren"t working: how to profit "
opportunities for this individual-there can be from every experience. He must learn not to waste
much variety, change, unusual happenings, un- his time or scatter his forces, not to get lost in pureusual people, unforeseen adventure. The 5 will ly physical delights-food, sex, drink, drugs. It
find that he's capable at almost any task, that he's can be sheer delight to be a rolling stone, but the
talented in a number of directions. The world is frustration of moving from place to place, from
his oyster-there are exciting things to do at every person to person, from opportunity to opportunity
turn-and that, undoubtedly, is the difficulty. He may eventually overwhelm the delight.
must learn how to pick and choose; how to seek exi CHARACTERISTICS
I
• Versatile and active. Can do almost anything. Occasionally, becomes quite erratic.
Can do many things with superior talent. Al- • Loves change. Wants to travel, to see unusual
ways involved with something new, different places, unusual people, have exciting advenor progressive. tures. Usually has difficulty and is unhappy
• Clever. An inborn ability to accomplish what with routine tasks.
he wants. Usually a quick thinker and a good • Delightful companion. Can inspire and delight
ability to analyze. This ability isn't always used with his enthusiasm (as long as others are not
to further his best interests. put off by the sudden changes in direction.)
• Restless and impatient. May have difficulty • Enthusiastic. Tackles each new experience with
sticking to a task. May give up an experience renewed enthusiasm.
because of a desire to try something new, not • The eternal youth. The excitement of life keeps , because of completion of the first experience. him forever young. .
NEGATIVE EXPRESSION
A 5 can occasionally 'be overwhelmed by his A very occasional 5 is hesitant about using his ;
opportunities. He can flit from thing to thing with freedom. He will retreat into a safe (for him) type
maddening speed: he can change direction at the of situation-a nine to five job, a stable ,family
drop of a hat; he can get lost in overindulgence unit. The changes and uncertainties that follow a 5 "
with little sense of the negative effects. The 5 can will still be there, but he will not express the facil- I!.
I ~; :1 be so erratic that people around him get frustrated ity to handle them. He will be frustrated with his ~ ! trying to keep up. Usually, the 5 is frustrated with safety, annoyed at the changes and uncertainty, ,~
•himself, too, but the excitement of each new but not willing to risk to learn about freedom. ,~ adventure keeps him going, \.
"
'~ COMMENTARY ";
?Once on track, this can be a most delightful structive vs. nonconstructive. Sometimes, many .~ lesson. Getting on track is often difficult, usually years will pass before the 5 will look back, realize ~ " takes up a good portion of the life. 5's often enjoy how little has been accomplished with such an
freedom with little understanding of the construc~ advantage in opportunities and abilities. When the
tive use of freedom. With so much talent and ver- rolling stone changes to a more positive expression :~ satility, with so many opportunities from which of change, uncertainty and opportunity, the
to choose, it's difficult to be concerned about con- growth of the individual can be a joy to behold. ~
THE LIFE PATH 243
CHART2 6 BALANCE
RESPONSIBILITY
LOVE
THE LIFE PATH
CENTRAL FOCUS
The subject must learn the deep pleasure of return. The individual must always be there to
handling responsibility. He is born with the innate help, sometimes even to his own disadvantage. He
ability to give help and comfort whenever needed, may have to learn to distinguish between helping
to support those too weak to support themselves. and interfering.
Others will quickly recognize these capabilities The subject will usually seek the closeness of
and come to the 6 for help. He'll find himself marriage, although he may have to work at the
responsible for far more than his fair share. He balance needed in marriage far more than he
must accept the responsibility and learn to serve might expect. His ability to balance and harmofamily, relatives and friends. He must be willing to nize may express in creative activities-art, music,
give out much in the way of friendship and love, writing-providing him with much pleasure.
and will receive much friendship and love in
:i CHARACTERISTICS
i • Responsible. Always there to pick up the bur- Probably the person in the family to whom I
I den. others come when things are not in balance.
• Loving and appreciative. Always ready to help. • One of the focuses of the life is usually family,
• Sympathetic and kind. Generous with all one's relatives and friends.
personal and material resources. • Rarely too concerned with material needs.
• Usually loves children. Makes excellent teacher. • Artistic.
• Capable of rectifying and balancing situations. • Emotional.
.~'
NEGATIVE EXPRESSION
There aren't rrraily-rleg'ative 6's around. Some- (of himself and others), extremely critical and fussy
times a person accepts and is overwhelmed by re- at the same time.
sponsibility, and becomes a near-slave or doormat The rare 6 who abdicates responsibility will feel
for others. This negative 6 will feel unhappy but tense and uneasy, always realizing he is not accepwill usually feel that this is his role in life. ting the share that belongs to him. He may be , Occasionally, the individual confuses responsi- laden with guilt and have difficulty continuing
bility for a situation with dominating a situation. satisfactory relations with others.
Occasionally, too, the negative 6 is far too exacting
,
'.
COMMENTARY ,
, The 6 usually accepts responsibility so readily out those who need him from those who don·t. 0
that advantage may be taken of him without his Part of the lesson of responsibility is clarifying " ever being aware of it. At some period in his life, when and where the sense of responsibility is to be . ,
the 6 will probably get tired of the burden, may used.
stop to clarify just how much responsibility he 6's are very exacting of themselves. Often,
chooses to assume. When he examines his life situa- they're willing to sacrifice themselves (or their
tion, he will find that many do come to him be- families) for the welfare of others. They may have
cause they are too weak to take care of themselves. to learn to temper their dreams of perfection.
He will find others, though, who lean on him out Sometimes, they have to learn to express their own
of force of habit-others who are capable of being individuality despite the heavy burden of responsi- ,
responsible for themselves. He will do well to weed bility they carry.
~
:.
-
244
CHART2
THE LIFE PATH
7
CENTRAL FOCUS
The subject must learn the peace of mind that
comes with knowing himself. He has a good mind
and a fine intuition. He must study and contemplate, learn not to judge from appearances. The
individual's life should be devoted to analyzing the
world about him, learning to trust his intuition,
developing until he reaches the highest levels of
wisdom. He must not emphasize material things in
CHARACTERISTICS
• "Different". Operates on a different wavelength
than others with access to unique solutions and
approaches. He is often difficult for others to
understand. Sometimes he has difficulty understanding himself.
• Difficult to get to know. Although he is often
unaware of it, he often protects himself by giving out little about himself. He may appear
aloof and cold, sometimes even hard. This is a
surface veneer, but it is difficult to penetrate.
• Introspective. He is usually turned in on himNEGATIVE EXPRESSION
The negative Tsometimes becomes so introspective and self-centered as to be a virtual recluse. His
lack of contact with others will make it difficult
for him to grow and develop.
An occasional negative 7, finding the path too
difficult, will try to ignore his own character and
COMMENTARY
If the 7 can get in touch with the satisfaction of
working as a teacher, counselor, researcher, or at
any other job which calls on intuition, mind and
spiritual awareness without stressing material
benefits, he can find much in the way of satisfaction. Too often, the 7 struggles against the very experiences which will make his life work. The 7
may not like being by himself, he may want to enREFERENCE CHART NUMBER 2
ANALYSIS
UNDERST ANDING
his life, but rather must become aware of the nonmaterial forces. He must be able to spend time by
himself without feeling isolated. The subject must
learn to wait for opportunities which work to his
advantage rather than actively seeking opportunities. Amid the hurly-burly of the world, his
development depends on his ability to retire into
himself to find faith and peace.
self, often appears reserved and thoughtful.
• Depends on self primarily. Whether confident
in his own abilities or not, he relies on himself.
He seems afraid to trust others, doesn't ask to be
trusted by others.
• Not too adaptable. He does things his own way,
is not especially interested in other approaches.
Since his view is often so different, it is difficult
for him to see the advantages of others' ways of
thinking and acting.
live in the material world without tuning in to his
inner resources. He will find that little works for
him, that he is beset with problems on all sides.
Only if he can move onto his track, will life begin
to have some meaning for him.
joy good company and material pleasure. He must
become aware of the excitements of the spiritual
forces which can be used for his advantage. Once
on track, his understandings and perceptions will
provide ample, though "different", pleasures. The
7 can then progress toward ultimate wisdom and
faith-the products of his growth and development.
-J
i
I
I
I
::
t
THE LIFE PATH
CHART2 8 THE LIFE PATH
CENTRAL FOCUS
The subject must learn the satisfactions of the
material world and the power which comes with
its mastery. He will be involved in practical,
down-to-earth work. There will be little of dreams
or visions. The individual will want to use his ambitions, his organizational ability, his efficient
approach to carve a satisfying niche for himself.
He will be concerned and involved with money,
CHARACTERISTICS
• Ambitious and self-confident.
• Efficient and energetic. Capable of organizing
and administrating.
• Executive ability. Capable of taking charge and
giving direction, even inspiring others.
• Dependable.
• Good at judging character. Aware of others
and their relation to himself and his goals.
• Realistic and practical. Doesn't fool himself
NEGATIVE EXPRESSION
The negative 8 may 'fiutsue his goals of money,
status and power with such intensity and singlemindedness that, although he may achieve his
ends, he will find little pleasure in the journey or
the attainment. He may misuse power, become intolerant of others, be faced with much resentment
and hostility.
COMMENTARY
It is very easy for the 8 to lose his way. He may
have difficulty seeing the forest instead of the trees.
He may be so immersed in his attainment of
money, material possessions, status and power,
that he may not see that these are not ends in
themselves-only the means to the ends. The goal,
quite simply, is the satisfaction that can come with
material freedom and power. All too often, this
lesson is lost or confused.
245
MATERIAL SATISFACTION
learning of the power that comes with its proper
manipulation. He'll be concerned with material
things, desirous of obtaining the best and most
comfortable for himself. He'll be concerned with
status-his own status measured against the status
of others. With growth and development, the subject will learn to achieve the power he desires.
with daydreams or fantasies.
• Tendency to rigidity or stubbornness. Because
he is often strongly goal-oriented and so aware
of reality, it is sometimes difficult for the 8 to
see that there are other approaches beside his
own. If he is aware of his rigidity (and most 8's
are not), it will still take much work to overcome. :.;
Sometimes, the negative 8, although desirous of
money and achievement, will be afraid to take the
risks involved in asserting himself. He will feel --,
limited and dissatisfied, but will have to achieve a
higher level of self-confidence before he can
comfortably make his presence known.
If the material freedom, once achieved, does not
provide pleasure, the 8 has not mastered the
lesson. If the power, once achieved, is misused, the
8 is off the track. The 8 must learn, not only to
achieve his goals, but to maintain a sense of proportion about those goals. Only when he is able to
do this, will he be in a position to grow and
develop.
:
, -
c
:, 246 REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 2
:--~==================~------------------~------------------.--~
..
:'
-
CHART2
THE LIFE PATH
9
CENTRAL FOCUS
The subject must learn the beauty of giving of
himself for the deep satisfaction of giving-without thought of reward or return. A simple lesson in
theory, a very difficult one in practice. The individual must practice selflessness, giving up a!llbitions and material possessions of his own for the
common good. His innate love of his fellow man
must be expressed with purity, from humanitarian
interests alone. He must give love, help or understanding when needed, again with no thought of
receiving anything in return. The difficulty on this
CHARACTERISTICS
• Much interest in others. Usually quite social.
Sympathetic, tolerant and broadminded.
• Idealistic. Sometimes tempered with a more
practical side, but idealistic nonetheless. Often
disappointed at lack of perfection in the world.
• Romantic. Loves with depth and passion. Can
be hurt by others whose response is not always
NEGATIVE EXPRESSION
The negative His·fairly common. He has difficulty believing that selflessness and lack of personal ambition can be satisfying. He is often ambitious, desirous of much in the way of material
rewards. He'll try to satisfy these needs, may even
manage to attain some of the goals, but will find
little of pleasure or satisfaction along the way. He
SELFLESSNESS
HUMANIT ARIANISM
path is, of course, the lack of return. The subject's
pleasure comes in the giving. If he looks for more,
if he has ulterior motives, the path will be difficult
and there will be little reward or satisfaction.
The subject may give to others as a fine spouse,
lover or friend, as a teacher or helper. He may give
to others in terms of creative endeavor. He may, as
a matter of fact, have much in the way of creative talent, but only in the purity of its expression
will he find the way.
as expected.
• Sensitive. Sees the world with much feeling and
compassion.
• Creative ability. Often a great deal of imagination to go with talent. Sometimes, has difficulty
finding outlet for expression.
may even end up embittered at the sorry results.
Sometimes, the negative 9 may be aware of the
satisfaction of the humanitarian impulse, but will
spend his time in dreaming or in going off in all
directions at once. He will accomplish little and be
dissatisfied.
" ;,:
,, .~ ~ ;~ !i~~~~,-!----~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------{SCOMMENTARY
9's can achieve as much as anybody in terms of
status, recognition, receipt of love and friendship.
But they receive the good things of life in a satisfying way primarily as they express their own selflessness and awareness of others. This can be a very
difficult lesson. You have to head in what seems
like the opposite direction to get where you're going. The 9 often rebels at the idea. It's difficult for
him to conceive that he can be immensely satisfied
as soon as he has given up the idea of needing personal satisfaction. He can find all the love and
.friendship he wants as soon as he stops looking for
love and friendship for himself and gives out love
and friendship to others instead. This is a very
deep lesson, but the rewards to those who can
follow this path are beyond description.
~~.. -::\ \
THE LIFE PATH 247
i
i
CHART2 ! 11 ILLUMINATION 1 THE LIFE PATH
CENTRAL FOCUS
The subject must learn an awareness of the tuition to tune in to forces beyond. He would do
spiritual world and the relation of that world to well to involve himself with psychic or occult stuthe material world. With this master number, he dies. He must recognize himself as a channel for
has added perceptions, added awarenesses, differ- awareness and inspire others with his purity. The
ent capabilities of understanding. These percep- subject will, with development and growth, betions and capabilities take much effort to develop come aware of the special knowledge that has been
but, once developed, the individual is capable of given to him. It is important that he spread this
far more ability and attainment than most others. illumination for others' benefit.
The 11 must learn to trust and develop his own in- c
CHARACTERISTICS
• Extremely capable at whatever work he choos- • Dreamer. Often more dreamer than doer.
es. Capable of rising to the top of his profession. Sometimes can dream of the accomplishment,
• Idealist. Has visions of a perfect world. Often but can't make it happen.
makes himself unhappy with his need for per- • Inspirational, although usually in a very quiet
fection. Often disappointed by his own and way. Others recognize some inner strength and
others' imperfections. awareness and can benefit from his lead.
• Impractical. Although he will usually function • Nervous tension. The special awarenesses and
well, there will also be an impractical side capabilities are accompanied by tension. The
brought about by his occasional difficulty in tension is usually quite obvious, but is occasionseparating his fantasy from the reality. This im- ally hidden beneath an applied veneer of
practicality may make it difficult for him to strength.
reach his goals.
"
NEGATIVE EXPRESSION
The negative 11 rna)' use his special power for he will feel uneasy and dissatisfied. .~
his own self-seeking ends. Although he may attain An occasional negative 11 gets lost in his
much, he will have missed the powerful lesson he dreams, accomplishes little, and rationalizes his
should have learned. Despite his accomplishments, predicament to try to find satisfaction.
"
,
~: ::.
COMMENTARY { 11 is special. He is capable of great accomplish- so aware and sensitive that ordinary living may , ments, although he will rarely reach anywhere provoke all sorts of pressures which others never ~ near his potential. He may not even understand feel. .~
anything of discussions of the spiritual world. He It usually takes an 11 a long time to get on the .,
.,
may, instead, be operating on an intuitive level, so track. While he is searching for direction, he will
that his relation with any but the material world is be, quite probably, a difficult person to deal with.
not particularly clear to him. It is hard to sit on the powder keg of such power
11 's special awarenesses are often difficult to and be comfortable, and the discomfort is exhandle. He can see the huge power potential that is pressed by attacks of nerves or temper.
present, but may be unable to focus the power to The 11 who is growing and developing is rare,
put it to practical use. The accompanying nervous but a beautiful person to behold. He is a person
tension can make him difficult to live with. He is who has much to give to others.
1 248 REFERENCE CHAR T NUMBER 2
1--;:====CH=:A=:RT=:2============~---2---------:------~!
I THE LIFE PATH 2 MASTER BUILDER : 1---- ~------------------------------------------------------------~,
i
·1
1
.. I
1
I
:1
I
L.,--------------' i
CENTRAL FOCUS
The subject must learn the ultimate mastery of
combining the highest of ideals with the enormous
power to achieve the largest of material goals.
With this master number, he has added perceptions, added awarenesses, different capabilities
of understanding plus the ability to attain anything and everything in the way of material accomplishment. Although these ultimate powers
are there, the subject must learn (and it's the most
CHARACTERISTICS
• Extremely capable at whatever work he
chooses. Capable of rising to the top of his profession. Even when the 22 is not accomplishing
as he should, the latent capability is most obvious.
• Practical. An innate understanding of the forces
involved in material problems.
• Unorthodox. His significant perceptions will
provide him with avenues not available to
others or often even not understandable to
others. He is operating on a different waveNEGATIVE EXPRESSION
The negative 22 may turn his powers to his own
selfish use. He may accomplish his goals, but he
will learn little of the ultimate lesson. He will
be aware of not using his talents wisely, but may
feel incapable of heading in a more meaningful
direction.
COMMENTARY
You will look for a long time before you find a
22 accomplishing anything even vaguely close to
his potential. Mostly, the 22 is in process, trying to
handle the forces which feel too powerful to handle, trying to live with the tension which accompanies these forces. The latent power of the 22 will
be obvious to all. People may shake their heads
and wonder why he didn't do more with his potent
energies. He will often be difficult to live with or
deal with-he is so aware, so perceptive, so
difficult of all the lessons) how to focus his large
gifts into productive use. He must work for the
benefit of mankind in order to achieve his own
ultimate growth. He is capable of the largest of
undertakings combining, perhaps, commercial or
political forces of substantial magnitude. The
potential is awesome-the individual's growth and
development depend on his ability to come to grips
with his power.
length than most of us-often his conduct is unorthodox, quite possibly he will appear eccentric.
• Charismatic. The glow of his inner fire will be
visible to all. Even when he is not accomplishing all he should, others may well be drawn to
the excitement of his activities.
• Nervous tension. The special awarenesses and
capabilities are usually accompanied by an almost electric field of nervous tension. The tension can rarely be hidden.
An occasional 22 is overwhelmed by his powers
and retreats from them. He may accomplish little,
feel frightened by the world around him, uncomfortable with his nervous tension.
capable-and often so frustrated at not being able
to put all the pieces together.
If and when the 22 harnesses his potential (and
it is usually somewhat along in his mature life), he
can be beautiful to behold. The vision of an individual, aware, superbly capable, dedicated to the
service of humanity, attaining on the very highest
levels-a superb vision, an ultimate dream worth
the striving.
,
,~
250 REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 3
CHART 3 THE EXPRESSION
THE EXPRESSION 251
~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------:!¥S~~~ .~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~ABILITIES
The Expression is a person's potential natural abilities. See Chapter 4,
page 3l.
The natural capabilities and talents are significant in determining the
type of work in which the subject will be most productive and content. If
the subject is involved with work in which his productivity is poor and his
satisfaction minimal, these innate abilities may be only occasionally or partially manifested.
POSITIVE ATTITUDES
The individual's attitudes when he puts his best foot forward will help
him make progress along the Life Path.
~,
~
,~------------------------------------------------------------------------------~,
NEGATIVE ATTITUDES
The exaggeration or denial of the positive attitudes produces negative attitudes, deterrents to progress along the Life Path. Awareness of these
negative attitudes may be the first step in converting them to a more productive direction.
,t
i
I
I 252 REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 3 I
I-~============~------------------------------~
CHART3
THE EXPRESSION 1 INDIVIDUATION
INDEPENDENCE
ATTAINMENT
ABILITIES
• Executive and administrative capabilities. Fine leader or promoter.
• Original and creative approach. (The creativity is not necessarily related to artistic endeavors; often, it's related to business
matters.) Others ~ will usually be needed to follow through and
take care of the details after the direction has been initiated.
• Good mind and the ability to use it for advancement.
• Potential for achievement and financial reward. Can establish
and/or run own business or have significant position in
another's business.
POSITIVE ATTITUDES
• Prefers to proceed on own course. Usually prefers little input
from others .
• Ambitious, determined.
• Positive, progressive.
• Self-confident.
• Self-reliant.
• Much will power, courage of the convictions.
1 ti---t-------------------------------------~ NEGATIVE ATTITUDES
• Egotistical.
• Stubborn.
• Dominant, bossy.
• Too aggressive.
• Selfish, self-centered.
~. :~
• Lazy, dependent.
I;f
.
THE EXPRESSION 253
~----------------------------------------------------------------------------fCHART3 2
THE EXPRESSION
RELATION
COOPERATION
ABILITIES
• Works well with others. Probably prefers partnerships to individual enterprises. (May have to learn that others may get
credit for some of his ideas or accomplishments.)
• Sensitive to others' feelings. Diplomatic in handling complicated situations.
• Skillful at organizing and handling groups.
• Good facilitator. Contributes to group situations by use of persuasion rather than force.
• Capable of handling details well.
• Psychic abilities (often latent).
H-----------------------------------------------------,iPOSITIVE ATTITUDE
• Considerate, courteous.
• Cooperative.
• Adaptable.
• Modest. Can work comfortably without necessarily receiving
full acknowledgement for contributions.
• Tactful, diplomatic. Innate desire for harmony.
• Friendly.
'- .. r' ,').
:~ .i
:I
~ f--+---------------------------------------------------,l
NEGATIVE ATTITUDES
• Over-sensitive. Too delicate ego is easily hurt.
• Shy, uncertain.
• Timid, fearful.
• Apathetic, indifferent.
• Lost in detail or careless with details.
~ oj.
~ ::;
,\
.'{
tt
:1
'i
~
I~
e,
I~
,~ ~
~~ .,
:5
f--~--------------------------------------------------~j
i ~

I
i
I I
I
I
254
CHART3
THE EXPRESSION 3
REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 3
EXPRESSION
JOY OF LIVING
I ABILITIES
• Talent with words-writing, speaking, singing, acting,
teaching are possible vocations or avocations.
• Can sell or entertain-knows how to present material with
imagination.
• Artistic talents (often latent).
• Creative imagination (often latent).
POSITIVE ATTITUDES
• Expresses joy of living with optimism and enthusiasm.
• Friendly, affectionate, loving.
• Gracious, charming.
• Very social, good conversationalist.
• Cheerful, happy, merry.
• Loves a good time.
• Capable of providing inspiration for others.
~i
"
~
~j
'"
"
.:j
.:~ "
r--+--------------------------------------------------------~--------------~&~NEGATIVE ATTITUDES ~• Dilettante, scatters forces.
• Too easy going.
• Trivial, superficial.
• Critical, moody, too sensitive.
• Gossipy.
r--r--------------------------------------------------------------------------:
I
ir--, ;:====T=H=E=E=X=P=R=E=SS=l=O=N======::::;-_______________________ :'_~5_5 _--,--;"CHART3 4 LIMITATION
ORDER
SERVICE
~-----------------------------------------------1~-------------~ ,THE EXPRESSION
ABILITIES
• Good organizer, manager. Can establish order and routine or
maintain existing order or routine.
• Practical, down-to-earth approach.
• Strong capability to bring plans to a practical form.
• Can work long and hard. Conscientious and dependable.
• Patient with details, insists on accuracy.
• Works well in material mediums: as builder, engineer, craftsman, etc.
• Capable of writing or teaching, often on technical matters.
;.,1--+--------------------------------------------'-' ..
POSITIVE ATTITUDES
• Responsible. Fulfills obligations.
• Proceeds with job at hand despite seeming limitations or restrictions.
• Systematic, orderly.
• Serious, sincere.
• Honest, faithful.
• Helpful.
._ ,( ~ Patient, persevering, determined.
NEGATIVE ATTITUDES·
• Frustrated by feelings of limitation or restriction-often of own
making or existing only in the imagination.
• Rigid, stubborn, dogmatic, fixed approach.
• Strong likes and dislikes.
• Bossy, dominant.
• Excessively disciplinarian.
• May concentrate on details to the exclusion of the larger picture.
i 256 REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 3
i CHART3
HL-...;----_I----------------:
I i THE EXPRESSION 5 CONSTRUCTIVE FREEDOM
ABILITIES
• Talented and versatile. Capable of doing almost anything
attempted, often extremely well.
• Good at presenting ideas. Understands how to approach others
to get what is wanted.
• Good at selling. Innate ability to determine best way to succeed
at particular sales situation.
• Enjoys and is successful working with people.
• Entertaining and amusing.
• Clever, analytical ability, often a quick thinker.
POSITIVE ATTITUDES
,.t" t>
• Enthusiastic.
• Adaptable.
• Progressive.
• Loves change, likes to travel, see unusual places and people, investigate unusual ideas.
• Delightful companion.
,~~-+--------------------~-------------------------------------------------------,~:~NEGATIVE ATTITUDES
• Restless and impatient, may not stay with any project too long.
Sometimes erratic.
• Scatters self and energy.
• Chafes at routine tasks or situations. Has difficulty with anything standard or rigid, such as regular office hours.
• Reacts strongly if he feels freedom of speech or action is being
impaired~
• Often difficult to profit readily from experience.
• Often difficult to discard easily.
• May overindulge in eating, sensuality, drinking, drugs.
• Sometimes misses big picture because of excitement generated
by new interest.
-~:'
THE EXPRESSION 257
CHART3
THE EXPRESSION 6 BALANCE
RESPONSIBILITY
LOVE
ABILITIES
• Responsible .
• Helpful and conscientious. Capable of rectifying and balancing
inharmonious situations.
• Gives help and comfort to those in need.
• Works well where care of old, young or sick is involved.
• Shows concern for betterment of community.
• Creative and artistic talents.
POSITIVE ATTITUDES
• Loving, friendly, appreciative of others.
• Sympathetic, kind.
• Generous, understanding.
• Often invoived in domestic activities, usually good spouse and
parent.
• Usually is open and honest with others.
"'- .. r'.).
'i
.,'"~;r-+-------------__________________________________________________________ ~a
NEGATIVE ATTITUDES
• Too exacting of self. Occasionally will sacrifice self (or family)
for the welfare of others.
• Occasionally has difficulty distinguishing helping from interfering.
• May express worry and anxiety.
• May have difficulty expressing own individuality because of involvement with responsibilities. May, unknowingly, become a
drudge.
I 258 REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 3
1' -;:=============~-------~-------!
I CHART3
-
I
i
I
7
THE EXPRESSION
ANALYSIS
UNDERSTANDING
ABILITIES
• Good mind, good intuition.
• Capable of analyzing, judging, discriminating.
• Searches for wisdom or hidden truths. Often becomes authority
on subjects that interest him-technical, scientific, religious or
occult.
• Potential to be educator, philosopher, researcher.
• Spiritual awareness (often latent). May be involved in psychic
explorations .
• Operates on "different" wavelength which may give unique
approaches and solutions to problems. (It also may make it difficult for others to know the person well.)
POSITIVE ATTITUDES
.• ; l-
• Perfectionist. When carried to extremes, as it may well be, this
tendency may interfere with work at hand.
• Very logical, rational approach. Approach shows little emotion. Too much emotion, if noted in other numbers, may cause
difficul ties.
• Willing to work to understand deep, difficult subjects, to search
for hidden fundamentals.
• Potential. to be peaceful and poised. Usually achieved only at
maturity.
f---f-------------------------------------"i,'i'
i
-!
NEGATIVE ATTITUDES
• Little trust in others.
• Not very adaptable.
• Usually introspective, tends to be self-centered.
• Critical, unsympathetic, intolerant.
• Usually prefers to work alone. Must learn to be by himself and
not feel isolated-may rebel at the idea of learning this.
• Difficulty with emotions-usually shows little of own emotions
and may have difficulty understanding others' emotions.
~-+---------------------------------------
THE EXPRESSION 259 if--_______________________________________ --';
~I
CHART3 8
THE EXPRESSION
MATERIAL SATISFACTION
~~~f-J~-------------------------------~~----------~ ~ABILITIES
• Organizational, managerial and administrative capabilities.
• Potential for achievement and financial reward. Can establish
and/or run own business or have significant position in
another's business.
• Efficient.
• Good judgment with money. Understands how to accumulate,
handle and spend money. '
• Good judgment of character.
• Uses a realistic, practical approach.
• Capable of handling large projects or interests. This capability
may be latent or may be in the background because of characteristics of other numbers.
:~~I'.;I--+-----------------------------------------;~ POSITIVE ATTITUDES
• Ambitious, usually in healthy way (unless overdone). Goaloriented.
• Energetic.
• Self-confident.
• Dependable.
• Seeks material comfort. If overdone, .this becomes a negative
trait .
.. "_ .or· .').
i
I'~~-N-E-G-A-T-I-V-E--A-T-T-IT-U-D-E-S----------------------------------------~;
• Rigid, stubborn.
• Overambitious, impatient with progress.
• Very exacting, both of self and others. Often intolerant.
• May strain after money, status or power to own detriment. May
misuse power. May strain for material freedom so that even accomplishment of the freedom does not bring pleasure.
• Materialistic, to exclusion of other values.
;11--_, __ 2_6_o ______________________ R_E_F_E_R_E_N_C_E_C_H_A_R_T_N_V_M_B_E_R_3 __ -<
I
L
CHART3
THE EXPRESSION
9 SELFLESSNESS
HUMANITARIANISM
~-----------~
ABILITIES
• Humanistic interest and approach.
• Philanthropic, likes to help others.
• Sensitive to others' needs, much feeling and compassion.
• Works well with people.
• Potential for inspiring others-may be teacher, religious leader,
counselor.
• Creative ability, imagination and artistic talent of the highest
order (often latent).
POSITIVE ATTITUDES
• Much human understanding.
• Gives a lot to others, extreme of selflessness. occasionally
achieved.
• Personal ambition is usually in positive perspective.
• Interest in others-sympathetic, tolerant, broad-minded,
compassionate, generous.
• Idealistic, disappointed at lack of perfection in the world .
• Romantic. Gives much friendship, affection, love. Can .d" ..
sometimes (in its highest expression) be content with minimal
return.
• A ware of own feelings as well as others.
~-+--------------------------------------------------~ NEGATIVE ATTITUDES
• Selfish, self-centered.
• Unaware of real feelings.
• Insensitive to others' needs and feelings.
• Wants much friendship, affection, love. Sometimes has difficult
(often aloof) attitude which makes it difficult for others to respond.
• Lack of involvement.
'.
THE EXPRESSION 261 i·'.~ ---------------------------------------------------------------- ----------~~fI
CHART3 11 ILLUMINATION
gl
~ .'~ t-----------------------------------------f.~---------------~ j
THE EXPRESSION
ABILITIES
• Inspirational, often inspires by his own example. Others usually
can see his inner strength and awareness. Would be good spiritual adviser, philosopher, teacher, welfare worker.
• Very aware and sensitive with good intuition. Tie to spiritual
world gives added depth to point of view .
• Often operating on psychic levels-may do well in psychic,
mystic or occult studies.
• Good mind and analytical ability .
• Very capable at whatever work is chosen, but often has difficulty focusing ability to achieve ends.
• Usually works better outside the business world. If in the
business world, his approach is often unusual.
POSITIVE ATTITUDES
• Idealistic approach. Often disappointed by own and others'
imperfections. (Expresses ideals, even though they may prove
impractical.) .
• Deeply concerned with art, music, beauty .
.... - .. ( .. ).
J~;~3\
~~ 'I
. ,.
i~---N-E-G-A-T-IV--E-A-T-T-I-T-U-D-E-S----------------------------------------~~
• Nervous tension almost always present.
• Often more dreamer than doer. Sometimes quite aimless.
• Too sensitive.
• Temperamental, temper.
• Impractical, sometimes has difficulty separating fantasy from
reality .
• May impose ideas or standards on others in unfeeling way.
• Self-centered, inconsiderate.
• Wants to spread his illumination to others irrespective of others'
desire or need.
t--r------------------------------------------------------------------------~;.
-
262 REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 3
CHART3
THE EXPRESSION 22 MASTER BUILDER
ABILITIES
• Extremely capable at whatever work is chosen.
• Capable of handling large scale undertakings. May accomplish
significant undertakings in the material world.
• Capable of leading in new directions.
• Unorthodox approach to problems.
• Much unusual perception and awareness.
POSITIVE ATTITUDES
• Practical approach tempered by awareness of non-material
forces.
• Idealistic.
• Inner strength visible to all. If developed, will attract others
with charisma.
• May work for the good of all.
:
~ ~ ----+-----------------------------------------------------------------------~1 NEGATIVE ATTITUDES
• Nervous tension brought on by high level awareness.
• May accentuate unorthodoxy to the point of eccentricity.
• Selfish and dominating. Uses power for own good rather than
universal benefit.
• Inability to harness power may cause feelings of inferiority.
.'1
· I
:}
.. (.
{I 264 REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 4
I~------------------------------~--------------:
I
I
CHART 4 THE SOUL URGE
.·:--i ___ T_H_E_S_O_U_L_U_R_G_E _____________________________ 26_5 __ _
MOTIVES
The Soul Urge is a person's inner motivation, what he really wants out of
life. See Chapter 5, page 37.
His inner nature is usually revealed to others, but sometimes it is hidden
within.
POSITIVE ATTITUDES
The feelings and inclinations which will be most helpful in making
progress.
- .. ('.).
.. r-~---------------------------------------
NEGATIVE ATTITUDES
The exaggeration or denial of the positive feelings and inclinations produces negative effects which act as deterrents to progress.
.1 266 REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 4
'I
I
CHART4 I 1 INDIVIDUATION
! INDEPENDENCE I ATTAINMENT
I THE SOUL URGE I---
MOTIVES
The subject would like to be as independent as possible, ideally completely free to act on his own. He wants to be the leader or organizer, free
to initiate or pioneer in any venture that strikes his fancy. He prefers to
take a strong individualistic stand, dominating any situation in which he's
involved. He wants to be a success in large, progressive enterprises. He's
concerned primarily with the broad strokes, prefers to leave the details to
others. He keeps his own counsel, works with a few hand-picked em- .,
ployees. ~ ~\' ~ ~
<
)
,
" POSITIVE ATTITUDES
• Ambitious, determined. .• Honest, loyal. .!
• Instigates action. .'
• Seeks opportunities to use his abilities.
.,
>
.)
0'
j
<
1 i I
I .,
J NEGATIVE ATTITUDES ,y
~
• Egotistical. .'
• Impatient, disapproving.
• Dominant, bossy.
• Headstrong, impulsive.
• Conceited . ..
c
,
:
:1 THE SOUL URGE 267 ~1~================~------------------------~-------------------i~I ,- ~~~r. ~~ ..
CHART4
THE SOUL URGE
2 RELATION
COOPERATION
~--------------------~----------------------------------------------------~~MOTIVES
The subject would like friendship, affection, love, companionship. He
usually prefers marriage to being single. He wants to work with others as
part of a cooperative team, only rarely wants to lead. He will work hard to
achieve a harmonious environ,ment with sensitive, genial people.
POSITIVE ATTITUDES
• Sympathetic, concerned, devoted .
• Sensitive, diplomatic, tactful. Emotional.
• Quietly persuasive rather than forceful.
• Friendly.
• Gives love and affection .
. '- .. ('.).
NEGATIVE ATTITUDES
• Over-sensitive. Too delicate ego is easily hurt. May be timid or
fearful.
• Not given to disciplining himself or others.
• Too easy going-may become a doormat.
~,~ "
i
'i_~===26=8=========;-_____________ --:R_E_F_E_R_E_N_C_E_C_H_A_R_T_N_U_M_B_E_R_4_ii
1-
CHART4
THE SOUL URGE 3 EXPRESSION
JOY OF LIVING
MOTIVES
The subject would like to express his delight in life, his sense of joie de
vivre. He wants to participate in an active social life with many close
friends and diverse activities. He would like to express his artistic talents,
particularly his talent with words: speaking, writing, acting, singing. He
wants his home and work environment to reflect the beauty he enjoys
creating.
POSITIVE ATTITUDES
• Friendly, outgoing, social.
• Rarely discouraged.
• Good mental/emotional balance.
• Intuitive. Often inspirational.
• Capable of self-expression, either in social situations or in artistic fields.
'.
~ ,1.
;
,f
.~ ----+----------------------------------------~
NEGATIVE ATTITUDES
• Tendency to scatter forces.
• Too easygoing and optimistic.
• Too sensitive when criticized.
• Compulsive talker, may be critical.
THE SOUL URGE 269
CHART4 4
THE SOUL URGE
LIMITATION
ORDER
SERVICE
MOTIVES
The subject would like to lead a stable life. He prefers orderliness and a
systematic approach in his endeavors. He wants to serve others methodically and diligently. He wants to be involved in solid, conventional, wellregulated activities. He's likely to be disturbed by innovation and erratic
or sudden changes.
.,
"
j
"~ .; I'~ )
~ :( ,1
" 1-+--------------------------------------.1\POSITIVE ATTITUDES
• Good at organizing, systematizing, managing. Good at establishing routine and order. Logical, thorough, exacting with
details.
• Responsible, reliable.
• Honest, sincere, conscientious. Hates pretension.
• Practical and analytical.
• Self-disciplined, determined, tenacious.
I
I
.~--------------------------------------
NEGATIVE ATTITUDES
• Rigid, stubborn, narrow-minded.
• Hides feelings. Often, is not aware of real feelings.
• Bossy, dominant.
• May neglect large affairs because of blind involvement in
details.
• Afraid to take chances.
..,
".,
I
I 'I 270 REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 4
1
I CHART4
I 5 CONSTRUCTIVE FREEDOM
THE SOUL URGE --
MOTIVES
The subject would like a life of freedom, excitement, unexpected hap- -. penings, unusual adventures, travel. He doesn't want to be governed by
standard values or traditions. He wants to be the one to set the pace .
..
POSITIVE ATTITUDES
• Very adaptable and versatile.
• Natural resourcefulness, enthusiasm. ",
.'
• Capable of bringing new excitement into his interests. J
,• Progressive approach, strong feelings.
• Good mind and imagination. -.
"
it;
"
;
> '0
:~ .~ "f
:i
}~ i
~ ~
NEGATIVE ATTITUDES tf
,.
, ~~ • Restless and impatient. Dislikes routine and detail work. ;;
• Jumps from interest to interest, activity to activity. ~
• Discards quickly to go on to the new. Rarely holds to anything. ,~. • May have difficulty with responsibility. ~ 7i
"
: ~ *~
¢ :).
-< ",~ \~
,;
j
,-
:
---
i THE SOUL URGE 271
:i-! ------------------'----------------------,.-- ,-I (
i
l
CHART4 6 BALANCE
RESPONSIBILITY
I THE SOUL URGE LOVE
MOTIVES
The subject would like to be appreciated for his ability to handle responsibility. His home and family are likely to be a strong focus in his life, one
of the areas where he gives and receives friendship, love, affection. He
wants to rectify and balance situations in which he is involved, to help and
serve others. The subject prefers to work with others rather than by
himelf. He is concerned with beauty in his surroundings and often expresse,s himself in creative or artistic activities.
POSITIVE ATTITUDES
• Responsible.
• Openminded, sympathetic, understanding, generous.
• Gives much friendship, affection, love. Expresses deep emotionallife.
• Idealistic.
• Natural ability to serve, help and teach-capable of sacrifice if
necessary.
• Artistic an9 creativ~ expression . .. '- .. (' ).
rt--------------------------------------------- 1
NEGATIVE ATTITUDES
• Too emotional.
• Interfering or too protective rather than helpful.
• Often represses own needs in order to serve others-may
become resentful.
'.-.
r
2i2 REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 4
:
tCHART4 7 ~ , ANALYSIS ~ THE SOUL URGE UNDERST ANDING E~ - ~
MOTIVES ~
The subject would like much time alone, much quiet and retirement ;.
" .' from the outer world in order to develop his inner resources. He likes to ~
\; dream and develop his idealistic understandings, to study and analyze to ~:
gain knowledge and wisdom, to learn the deeper truths. He prefers con- ~ ' ..
templation to activity arid adventure. He prefers avoiding the business "' world. ~.~
"
~ :j
i'
~
~ Ii
~ ~ , ~ "
~~ POSITIVE ATTITUDES i• Good mind. Analytical approach. ','
• Studious, theoretical approach. ,
:~ • Technical, scientific, religious or occult interests. ,..
• Reserved. ' ~
• Seeks perfection. '.;
"~ hi' .'
.'
" , ~ 'X
t " "
~{ .,
c'.
;~ ~ NEGATIVE ATTITUDES "
• Timid and withdrawn, innately shy, difficulty with casual con- ~ ~~ versation. "
• Lives in dreams and fantasies.
• Difficult for others to understand. Others have difficulty showing affection. t
• Represses most emotions although the emotions are often very
strong.
• Secretive, selective. .,
:' <:
• Not too adaptable. >
:::
~ g~
:
:
- ----
J
'I
.?THE SOUL URGE 273 ~~ ~====================~-------------------------------------------------------- f~CHART4 8 MATERIAL SATISFACTION
::l{:1THE SOUL URGE :~wr-------------------------------------------------------- dh---------------------~ ~MOTIVES
The subject wants wealth, success, status and power. He wants to excel
in the business or political world, to organize, supervise or lead. He probably has substantial material needs to satisfy.
H----------------------------------------------------------,(
j
I
) POSITIVE ATTITUDES
• Executive abilities, proceeds in businesslike manner.
• Confidence, energy and ambition.
• Analytical mind.
• Possesses good judgment. Has good sense of material values and
is good judge of character.
• Capable of the imagination required for commercial success.
• Functions well in emergencies. Inspired by crises or large odds.
• Selh:;oQ-trolled. Emotions rarely cloud judgments.
3
i~-----------------------------------------------------------
NEGATIVE ATTITUDES
• Dominating. Too exacting.
• Thinking, straining, striving for material values, financial success-sometimes to exclusion of all else.
• Tendency to be very self-centered.
• Tendency to rigidity, stubbornness.
• Represses feelings.
oj
rl
l1
~ " .. ~
~ i~
g" A
,
.,
i
::1
'.J
H------------------------------~-------------u
~
1
·i . 274 REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 4
j------------------------------------------:,
I
-
j
.1
CHART4
SELFLESSNESS
HUMANIT ARIAN
THE SOUL URGE 9
MOTIVES
The subject would like to give to others, usually in a humanitarian or
philanthropic manner. Sometimes, he wants to give friendship, affection
and love; sometimes, he gives of his knowledge and experience. He also
would like to share his artistic or creative talents with others. These are
often talents of considerable magnitude.
POSITIVE ATTITUDES
• Sympathetic, generous, kind.
• Sensitive nature. Expresses love, compassion, tolerance.
• Possesses deep, intuitive understanding of life.
• Possesses innate wisdom, good intuition, broad point of view.
• Often high ideals and an inspirational approach.
• Often self-sacrificing.
• Gives freely without being concerned about any return or
reward.
~
f :---~--------------------------------------~ I
I
:j
NEGATIVE ATTITUDES
• May be too sensitive; very emotional with emotions being expressed strongly.
• Conflict between higher spiritual aims and personal ambitions
may cause difficulties.
• May resent necessity of giving so much of the time.
• May be disappointed in lack of perfection in himself and others.
• Moody, critical.
r--+-------------------,----------------.-.-.... --------c
THE SOUL URGE 275 i~------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ~@fi;~~.~,~CHART4 11 ILLUMINATION ~t--------------------------------------------------------- ~~--------------------~ :.1THE SOUL URGE
MOTIVES
The subject would like to manifest his view on spiritual matters, to share
his ideas of idealism, beauty and perfection. He wants to give of himself to
humanity. He is often more concerned with the abstraction of giving to the
world rather than specifically giving to individuals.
~!o-:~~~~::~:::!f+------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ,i
POSITIVE ATTITUDES
• Utopian dreamer.
• Idealistic, intuitive and inspirational.
• Religious and spiritual, possibly psychic ability.
• Much inner strength and devotion to a chosen cause, sticks to
his ideals.
• Good mind.
,_ .• r- ,.
NEGATIVE ATTITUDES
• Nervous tension brought on by high level awareness.
• Too sensitive. May be very emotional or may repress feelings
altogether. In either case, the sensitivity is poorly handled.
• Strong ideas of right and wrong, often inflexible.
• Day dreams and deceives self. Impractical approach. (Often
can't see these qualities in himself.)
• Often extremely selective in associations. Others may be
bothered by his air of exclusivity.
: ~ ,;
-
276 nEFEnENCE CHAnT NUMBEn 4
CHART4
THE SOUL URGE
22 MASTER BUILDER
MOTIVES
The subject would like to use his abilities in an important humanitarian
undertaking. He wants to express the significant power he feels in a concrete manner, as a builder, engineer, diplomat, etc. In some way, he wants
to make a considerable contribution to the world.
POSITIVE ATTITUDES
• Universal outlook with a practical approach.
• High intelligence .
• Unusual perceptions and awarenesses.
• Diplomatic ability.
• High ideals.
• Strong capability and leadership ability.
• Commands respect with his superior vision.
----+---------------------------------------------------------------------------~ NEGATIVE ATTITUDES
• Nervous tension brought on by high level awareness.
• Too dominating.
,.('
278 REFERENCECHARTNUMBER5
CHART 5 -THE BIRTHDAY
THE BIRTHDAY 279 ~----------------------------------------------------------------------------~!:~J'rr----------------------------------------------------------------------------~~The Birthday is a sub-lesson to be learned in this life, a sub-focus on the
Life Path. See Chapter 6, page 4l.
In numerology terms, the Birthday, the day of the month on which the
individual is born, is reduced to a single digit or master number. The sublesson of the single digit or master number is described by the related
keywords.
The main emphasis of the attitudes and abilities for each Birthday is
described by this single digit or master number. The master number 11 has
attitudes and abilities related to its high level 11 and its reduced level 2.
The master number 22 has attitudes and abilities related to its high level 22
and its reduced level 4. See Chapter 8 for a discussion of master numbers.
If the birthday falls on the 13th, 14th, 16th or 19th of the month, an additional main emphasis is added due to karmic influences. See Chapter
11 for a discussion of these influences.
The numbers behind the single digit-the 17 behind the 8, the 23
behind the 5, for instance-add minor emphases to the attitudes and
abilities .
. (. ).
,',
J
'~
~ ~
f$
&
:~ Ci
~ ~
~ ~
'~
"
,~
" ,1
;, .'
(.~
':
i~
~--------------------------------------------------------------------------~~ ,
~ .;.
,~~:-p,~i:~
!
j
',I
"
280
CHART5
THE BIRTHDAY 1
REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 5
INDIVIDUATION
INDEPENDENCE
ATTAINMENT
~
11
I:
r --'-r-____________ --'f----------------------------------c[
~
1
Independent attitude.
Executive ability, good leader.
Ambitious, positive, progressive.
Self-confident.
Much will power.
Potential for achievement and financial
reward.
Good mind.
Practical, rational.
Often original approach.
Sensitive, rarely shows feelings.
Better at starting than continuing.
Better at broad strokes than details.
(Emphasis on 1 energy only. No subemphasis on other energies.)
~
?
~
~
---~--------------------------------------------~~
10
Independent attitude.
Much energy.
Executive ability, excellent leader.
Ambitious, positive, progressive.
Self-confident.
Much will-power.
Strong potential for achievement and
financial reward.
Compelling manner, can dominate a situation.
Excellent mind.
Practical, rational.
Creative ideas, strongly marked originality.
Sensitive, feelings usually repressed.
Better at starting than continuing.
Better at broad strokes than details.
(Emphasis on 1 energy only is similar
to the 1 Birthday above, but the
energy is more, strongly expressed
here. No sub-emphasis on other
energies.)
~
" 5~
~
~ ;~
R1---+---------------------------------------:,19
Independence strongly desired, usually
obsta()l~,to>overcome before dependence is
overcome.
Executive ability.
Ambitious.
Much will power.
Creative, imaginative.
Tendency to be self-centered, inability to see
self in relation to others.
Good mind.
Practical, rational.
Often original or unconventional approach.
Strong sensitivity may involve individual in
dramatic situations.
Feelings usually repressed.
Better at starting than continuing.
Better at broad strokes than details.
(Emphasis on 1 and 19/1 energy.
Sub-emphasis on 9 energy.)
,
~ \~{1,"~~~~~~~~--+---------------------------------------------------------------------i~~28
Independent attitude, but can work well
with others.
Executive ability, good leader.
Organizing, managing, administrative
capabilities.
Ambitious.
Diplomatic, uses persuasion rather than
force.
Creative, imaginative.
Potential for achievement and financial
reward.
Good mind.
Practical, rational.
Often original approach.
Sensitive, represses a good deal of feelings.
Affectionate.
Good at starting, capable of continuing.
Good at broad strokes, capable of taking care
of details.
(Emphasis on 1 energy. Sub-emphasis on 2 and 8 energy.)
~~\~£~~,~
THE BIRTHDAY 281
CHART5 2 RELATION
COOPERATION THE BIRTHDAY
Works well with others. Occasional moods of depression.
2 Prefers partnerships to individual enterprises. Affectionate.
Sociable, friendly. Better at continuing than starting.
Diplomatic, uses persuasion rather than Good with details.
force. (Emphasis on 2 energy only. No subConsiderate, courteous, modest. emphasis on other energies.) Cooperative, adaptable.
Much sensitivity to others' feelings, much
feeling expressed.
-
11
11 is a master number. For this Birthday, see
the description on the 11 page of this chart.
Works very well with others. Some moods of depression.
20 Prefers partnerships to'individual-enterprises. Very affectionate.
Very sociable, friendly. Better at continuing than starting.
Much attention to family, close friends. Good with details.
Diplomatic, uses persuasion rather than (Emphasis on 2 energy only is similar
force. to the 2 Birthday above, but energy Considerate, courteous, modest. is more strongly expressed here. No
Cooperative, adaptable. " sub-emphasis on other energies.)
Extreme sensitivity to others' feelings, much
feeling expressed. ,"
\
29
29 reduces to the master number 11. For this ; Birthday, see the description on the 11 page :; of this chart. ",
,
,
,
"'
':
1 ,.;
I ""
".
282 REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 5
--~========================~----------------------------~---------------------------I i
CHART5 3 THE BIRTHDAY
3
12
21
Good with words-writing, speaking, singing.
Can sell or entertain.
Artistic, creative, good imagination.
Expresses joy of living.
Enthusiastic, optimistic, cheerful.
Friendly, sociable.
Good conversationalist.
Energetic.
Good with words-writing, speaking, singing.
Works well alone or with others.
Original approach.
Artistic, creative, good imagination.
Expresses joy of living.
Enthusiastic, optimistic, cheerful.
Friendly, sociable.
Good conversationalist.
Energetic.
Good mind.
Practical, rational.
Good with words-writing, speaking, singing. >
Works well alone or with others.
Often uses original approach.
Artistic, creative, good imagination.
Expresses joy of living.
Enthusiastic, optimistic, cheerful.
Friendly, sociable.
Good conversationalist.
Energetic.
Good mind.
Practical, rational.
EXPRESSION
JOY OF LIVING
Affectionate, loving.
Much feeling may cause occasional rapid ups
and downs.
Scatters energy.
Involved with trivial or superficial matters.
Many interests, but may be bored easily.
(Emphasis on 3 energy only. No subemphasis on other energies.)
Very affectionate and loving. Very sensitive.
Much feeling may cause occasional rapid ups
and downs.
May repress feelings in business.
Sometimes scatters energy.
Sometimes involved with trivial or superficial
matters.
Many interests.
Good at broad strokes or with details.
(Emphasis on 3 energy. Sub-emphasis on 1 and 2 energy.)
Very affectionate and loving. Very sensitive.
Much feeling may cause occasional rapid ups
and downs.
May repress feelings in business.
Sometimes scatters energy.
Sometimes involved with trivial or superficial
matters.
Many interests.
Good at broad strokes or with details.
(Emphasis on 3 energy. Sub-emphasis on 2 and 1 energy.)
,
~
~ ,!
1~ ----~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------;~ Talent with words-writing, speaking, sing30 ing.
Can sell or entertain.
Very artistic, very creative, fine imagination.
Expresses joy of living.
Enthusiastic, optimistic, cheerful.
Very friendly and sociable.
Excellent conversationalist.
Very energetic.
Very affectionate" and loving.
Strong feeling may cause upsets.
Scatters energy.
Involved with trivial or superficial matters.
Many interests, but may be bored easily.
May not take care of work or responsibility.
(Emphasis on 3 energy only is similar
to the 3 Birthday above, but the energy is more strongly expressed here.
No sub-emphasis on other energies.)
THE BIRTHDAY 283 'I
'rr! ==================~----------------------~----------------~~i
CHART5 4 THE BIRTHDAY
4
13
22
31
Good organizer, manager.
Works long and hard, conscientious, dependable.
Responsible, self-disciplined.
Serious, sincere, honest.
Patient, persevering, determined.
Proceeds despite seeming limitations.
Very practical, rational.
Some rigidity or stubbornness,
Good organizer, manager, but may dominate
and irritate others.
Executive ability.
Works long, hard, energetically, dependably.
Responsible, self-disciplined, enthusiastic,
Serious, sincere, persevering.
Feels limited or restricted a good deal of the
time, causing frustration or depression.
Good mind.
Very practical.
22 is a master number. For this Birthday, see
the descrjp~io!l or the 22 page of this chart.
Good organizer, manager.
Works hard, energetic, dependable, enth usiastic.
Good in the business world.
Good conversationalist.
Responsible, helpful.
Serious, sincere.
Patient, persevering, determined.
Good mind.
LIMITATION
ORDER
SERVICE
Feeling generally repressed.
Shows little affection. Has difficulty attracting affection,
Patient with details, insists on accuracy.
May concentrate on details and miss the big
picture.
(Emphasis on 4 energy only. No subemphasis on other energies,)
Tends to be very rigid, obstinate, dogmatic.
Others may see him as unreasonable.
Feelings usually repressed,
Shows some affection, Has difficulty attracting affection.
Insists on accuracy.
Concentrates on details, often misses the big
picture.
(Emphasis on 4 and 13/4 energy.
Sub-emphasis on 1 and 3 energy.)
Very practical, rational, but some imagination shown.
Often original approach.
Some rigidity or stubbornness.
Sensitive, but feelings usually repressed.
Good with details, insists on accuracy.
Sometimes scatters energy.
(Emphasis on 4 energy. Sub-emphasis on 3 and 1 energy.)
8~~~~I"
" i'i,\",~"
~~I't:~"
,~,I.,,:s~,g~ if..; "
,~ ~~ "
:;
"
:i
" ":
,.
':
I
1 284
-1-~=C=H=AR=T=5======~----------:---------i
I 5 CONSTRUCTIVE
FREEDOM !
REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 5
1- THE BIRTHDAY 1----------------------; 5
Enjoys and works well with others.
Talented and versatile, good at presenting
ideas.
Likes new experience, change, travel.
Entertaining, amusing, enthusiastic, progressive.
Adaptable.
Sociable, delightful companion.
Imaginative.
Quick mind, clever, analytical.
Restless, impatient, chafes at routine.
May shirk responsibility.
(Emphasis on 5 energy only. No subemphasis on other energies.) .
~-+--------------------------------------------------~~
14
Enjoys working with others.
Talented and versatile, can organize and systematize.
Capable of hard work at times, usually not
consistently.
Desires new experience, change, travel, often
with little sense of proportion.
May overindulge in eating, sensuality, liquor,
drugs.
Entertaining, amusing, enthusiastic, progressive.
Usually adaptable.
Sociable.
Quick mind, clever, analytical.
Practical.
Often original approach.
Restless, impatient, somewhat erratic-tends
to jump from activity to activity with little
sense of accomplishment or accountability.
Often shirks responsibility~
(Emphasis on 5 and 14/5 energy.
Sub-emphasis on 1 and 4 energy.) ;~
~ f.---+--------------------------------------------;
23
Enjoys and works extremely well with
others .. , > .
Sometimes spokesman or peacemaker.
Talented and versatile, good at presenting
ideas.
Likes new experience, change, travel.
Entertaining, amusing, very enthusiastic,
progressive.
Adaptable.
Very sociable, delightful companion.
Very imaginative, artistic, creative.
Energetic.
Quick mind, clever, analytical.
Sensitivity to others' feelings with most feelings expressed.
Affectionate.
Restless, impatient, chafes at routine.
Shirks responsibility at times.
(Emphasis on 5 energy. Sub-emphasis on 2 and 3 energy.)
~-+-----------------------------------------------,
I
THE BIRTHDAY 285 ,-]
;1 ~I ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ CHART5 6 BALANCE
RESPONSIBILITY
LOVE
THE BIRTHDAY '.Responsible, helpful, conscientious. Good mind. ";6 Can facilitate changes in inharmonious situa- Much emotion and sensitivity. :tions. Loving, friendly, appreciative of others.
Sympathetic, kind, generous, understand- ~Gives and receives much affection. ~'ing. Better at continuing than starting. ~~Open and honest with others. .. Devoted spouse and parent, much interest· in Will pick up responsibilities if others falter. .~home, family. (Emphasis on 6 energy only. No sllb- :>"
Creative, artistic. emphasis on other energies.)
i
~~.~ ; ~Usually responsible, but independent at the Potential for achievement and financial 115 same time. reward. :-
~ Helpful, conscientious. Good mind.
Can facilitate changes in inharmonious situa- Practical, rational. .,
.' tions. .(
Much will-power. Emotion and sensitivity, sometimes represses
Sympathetic, understanding. feelings. ;
Adaptable, enthusiastic. Loving, friendly, appreciative of others.
Devoted spouse and parent, interest in home, Gives and receives affection. .';
family. (Emphasis on 6 energy. Sllb-empha- ,
Creative, artistic, imaginative. sis on 1 and 5 energy.)
:
Responsible, helpful, conscientious. Practical, rational.
24 Sometim.es. SPRktl,sman or peacemaker. Much emotion and sensitivity, represses some Can facilitate changes in inharmonious situa- feelings. tions. Loving, friendly, appreciative of others.
Works well with others. Gives and receives much affection.
Sympathetic, kind, generous, understanding. Better at continuing than starting. Devoted spouse and parent, interest in home,
family. Will pick up responsibilities if others falter.
Creative, artistic. Good with details. "
Good organizer, manager. (Emphasis on 6 energy. Sub-empha- ,--
Can work long and hitrd, self-disciplined. sis on 2 and 4 energy.) ;
Good mind.
:
o.
l~
I":,
::.~
-~
c
,
,-
'.
1 286 REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 5
'1--1 ------------
CHART5 7 ~
I ANALYSIS ~
I UNDERSTANDING f
THE BIRTHDAY '.
~
~
~
Not too adaptable, prefers to work alone but Logical, rational approach. ;,
~
7 often feels isolated. " Feels deeply, usually represses emotions. ~
Needs time to rest or meditate. Extremely sensitive, but relatively uncom- f
Introspective, stubborn, self-centered. municative. ~
Usually interested in technical, scientific, re- Difficulty giving or receiving affection. rf,
Jligious or occult subjects. Can carry work from start to finish using c
Likely to enjoy spiritual or psychic explora- own approach at own pace. tions. Perfectionist, stickler for details.
Given to unique or un\ilsual approaches or ..
solutions. (Emphasis on 7 energy only. No subFine mind, good intuition. emphasis on other energies.)
Relatively inflexible, insists on independence. Fine mind, good intuition. g16 , Prefers to work alone but usually feels lonely. Logical, rational approach. Responsible. ~
Needs time to rest or meditate. Feels deeply, usually represses emotions. ,:;. :i Introspective, stubborn, self-centered. Extremely sensitive, but usually uncommunDifficult to maintain permanent relations. icative. ,
Interest in home, family, but strong personal Much difficulty giving or receiving affection. i
needs at the same time. Can carry work from start to finish using ., Usually interested in technical, scientific, re- own approach at own pace. , ligious or occult subjects. Perfectionist, stickler for details. s
Likely to enjoy spiritual explorations. (Emphasis on 7 and 16/7 energy. .'
Given to unique or unusual approaches.
"Different" wavelength may confuse others. Sub-emphasis on 1 and 6 energy.) ; " Potential for achievement and financial t~ reward. ~ ~~ ~ "Often not too adaptable. Fine mind, good intuition. ,25 Needs tim~(to> rest or meditate. Logical, rational approach. ,~ Introspective, sometimes stubborn, sometimes Feels deeply, often represses emotions. <,self-centered. Extremely sensitive, but often uncommuni- "
Cautiously friendly, quiet enthusiasm, some- cative. ~times peacemaker. Some difficulty giving or receiving affection.
Cautiously enjoys new experience. Better at continuing than starting, occasional ~..
Usually interested in technical, scientific, restlessness. :~religious or occult subjects. Stickler for details.
Likely to enjoy spiritual or psychic explora- (Emphasis on 7 energy. Sub-empha- , tions.
Given to unique or unusual approaches or sis on 2 and 5 energy.) ~ solutions. i
;
,;
I
.-)
I THE BIRTHDAY 287
I CHART5
I 8 MATERIAL SATISFACTION
~ THE BIRTHDAY -
I
i Very capable in business world, prefers to be Seeks material satisfactions.
j 8 in charge. Practical, realistic.
1 Organizational, managerial, administrative Expresses little feeling.
i capabilities.
I Can handle large projects. Better at starting than continuing.
! Efficient, can handle money well. Better at broad strokes than details. I
Ambitious, energetic, goal-oriented. (Emphasis on 8 energy only. No sub- i Self-confident. emphasis on other energies.)
Dependable.
i ,
! '.
1 Very capable in business world, prefers to be Good mind, good intuition. :
I 17 in charge. Practical, realistic.
Independent attitude, executive ability. Often original approach, unique or unusual
Organizational, managerial, administrative solutions.
capabilities. Sensitive, but usually represses feelings. Can handle large projects. Difficulty giving or receiving affection.
Efficient, can handle money well. "
Better at starting than continuing. Ambitious, energetic, goal-oriented. Better at broad strokes than details.
Stubborn or self-centered. (Emphasis on 8 energy. Sub-empha- Self-confident.
Dependable. sis on 1 and 7 energy.)
Seeks material satisfactions.
.;
Capable in business world, works well with Seeks material satisfactions.
26 others. " .. (. . Creative, artistic.
Organizational, managerial, administrative Good mind.
capabilities. Practical, realistic.
Efficient, can handle money well. Sensitive, expresses some of the feelings. Ambitious, energetic. Affectionate, but reserved.
Adaptable, cooperative, responsible, con- Good at starting and continuing. ~ scientious.
Self-confident. Good at broad strokes and details. :
Dependable. (Emphasis on 8 energy. Sub-empha- ,.
Sociable, diplomatic. Uses persuasion rather sis on 2 and 6 energy.)
than force. "
.. ,
"
,.
::.
~~ .
. ,
"
;\
.,
.;
:;.
:
-:
-
J J!-____ 2_B_B ____________________________ R_E_F_E_R_E_N_C_E_C_H_A_R_T_N_U_M_B_E_R_5 __ _
I
I
-
CHART5
THE BIRTHDAY
9
Works well with others.
Humanistic, philanthropic approach.
Broadminded, tolerant, generous.
Sympathetic, compassionate.
Idealistic, can inspire others.
Creative, imaginative.
Sensitive to others' needs and feelings .
9 SELFLESSNESS
HUMANIT ARIANISM
Much feeling expressed, may be involved in
many dramatic situations.
Gives much in the way of friendship, affection, love. Can sometimes be content with
minimal return.
(Emphasis on 9 energy only. No subemphasis on other energies.)
.. ~--+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------~
18
27
Works well with others but must preserve independence.
Humanistic, philanthropic approach, often in
business situations.
Executive ability.
Organizational, managerial, administrative
capabilities.
Broadminded, tolerant, generous.
Sympathetic, compassionate.
Much will-power.
Idealistic, can inspire others.
Creative, imaginative.
Potential for achievement and financial
Works well with others.
Needs some,time to rest and ·meditate.
Humanistic, philanthropic approach.
Broadminded, tolerant, generous, cooperative.
Sympathetic, compassionate.
Occasional introspective or self-centered
needs.
Sociable, uses persuasion rather than force.
Idealistic, can inspire others.
Creative, imaginative, unique or unusual
approaches or solutions.
reward.
Good mind.
Practical, rational.
Sensitive.
Some feelings expressed but much repressed,
may be involved in many dramatic situations.
Gives some friendship, affection, love. Can
sometimes be content with minimal return.
(Emphasis on 9 energy. Sub-emphasis on 1 and 8 energy.)
Good mind, logical approach.
Extremely sensitive to others' needs and feelings.
Much feeling expressed, may be involved in
many dramatic situations.
Gives much in the way of friendship, affection, love. Can sometimes be content with
minimal return.
(Emphasis on 9 energy. Sub-emphasis on 2 and 7 energy.)
":::~.:;~':~:.~r--~-------------------------------------------------.~J~:~~
THE BIRTHDAY 289
I )
I l
I
CHART5 1 1 ~ i
ILLUMINATION I I THE BIRTHDAY ~ ,
I,
" ,
I ~ 1 ~ I "~~ i ~ i
i ;;
-:
, I :'!
I -'
I ~j
I ~ . .;
" "i "
<-
I
::i
Works well with others. Good mind, analytical ability. -,-
'i 11 Often inspires by example. Good intuition. :
Uses persuasion rather than force. Very aware and sensitive, often high emo- i
Spiritual, occult or psychic explorations. tions, temperamental. , "I
Idealistic. More dreamer than doer. "
Creative. (Emphasis on 11 and 2 energy. No Nervous tension.
Uncomfortable in business world. sub-emphasis on other energies.)
:'
"
'- .. (" .,.
"
\; . ..
"
::
Works well with others. Very aware and sensitive, often high emo- ; ~
29 Often inspires by example. tions, temperamental.
Uses persuasion rather than force. May be involved in dramatic situations. L
Spiritual, occult or psychic explorations. Gives much in the way of friendship, affec- ~-: tion, love. Can sometimes be content with " Idealistic. "
Much creativity, imagination. minimal return. ~.\
Nervous tension. More dreamer than doer. :!
Uncomfortable in business world. (Emphasis on 11 and 2 energy. Sub- :
Good mind, analytic.al ability. emphasis on 9 energy.)
Good intuition. ..
-c_
290 REFERENCE CHART NUMBEll 5
-j ;
I
CHART5 22 MASTER BUILDER ~ THE BIRTHDAY -
"
;,
,
~
-.
. ~
~ ,
'~
~
~
.~
;
c
J~ Capable of handling large scale under- Nervous tension.
22 takings. . > Much unusual perception and awareness. Capable of leading in new directions. Good intuition.
Extremely capable organizer. Better at starting than continuing. , Unorthodox approach. Better at broad strokes than details.
Responsible, serious, sincere, works long and (Emphasis on 22 and 4 energy. No ~hard. sub-emphasis on other energies.) Idealistic, desire to work for the good of all. ~ l~Inner strength, often charisma. 1~~.,
, .. '
i,.
<,~'~ e~~".' ~
_.r-
292 REFERENCECHARTNUMBER6
CHART 6 THE ASPECTS
THE ASPECTS 293 i if-------------------------------------
I
I
i
I
This chart is different than any of the others. Rather than
describe the potential characteristics and energies involved in a
specific number, this chart describes the potential relation between two numbers. This relation is called an aspect.
This aspect chart indicates the potential harmony or discord
of the energies involved. The person's life may be harmonious or
discordant depending on (1) whether he expresses the aspect
potential, rises above the aspect potential or falls below the
aspect potential, (2) the use of his free will, and (3) the environment in which he finds himself.
See Chapter 7, page 49, for further discussion of the use of
this chart.
Since II is the higher octave of 2, wherever II energy is involved, read both the II and 2 aspects.
Since 22 is the higher octave of 4, wherever 22 energy is involved, read both the 22 and 4 aspects.
The aspects are described on the page related to the lower
number of the aspect. For instance, the 5·3 aspect (which is the
same as the 3·5 aspect) would be found on the 3 page of the
chart under the 3·5 heading.
The "usual" description of the aspect appears directly below
each aspect heading. Sometimes, in parentheses below the usual
description you'll find descriptions divergent from the "usual"
description.
I
I
.! ":i
:.!
I
I
-
I
i
I
I
':,
I
I
I
294
CHART6
THE ASPECTS
1
Summary of 1 aspects:
3 harmonious aspects
1 harmonious or discordant aspect
1·1 Usually VERY DISCORDANT
Overemphasis on self and own needs. Little
concern for others.
or
1·2 Usually DISCORDANT
The potential of the 1 to lead and manage
1·3 Usually HARMONIOUS
The self-centeredness of the 1 is toned down
by the social awareness of the 3. The leadership potential of the 1 is enhanced by the gift
1·4 Usually HARMONIOUS
The potential of the 1 to lead and manage is
enhanced by the potential of the 4 for system
and order.
1·5 Sometimes HARMONIOUS; sometimes
DISCORDANT
The attainment potential of the 1 may be enhanced by the constructive use of freedom of
the 5. This combination may be extremely
powerful or may produce a combination so
overpowering as to work against individual's
1·6 Usually DISCORDANT
The self-centered potential of the 1 conflicts
1·7 Usually DISCORDANT
The desire for attainment of the 1 conflicts
with the introspective potential of the 7.
1·8 Usually HARMONIOUS
The attainment potential of the 1 is enhanced
by the executive potential of the 8 for material
achievement.
1·9 Usually DISCORDANT
The self-centered potential of the 1 conflicts
with the potential of the 9 for giving to others.
(Sometimes, the 9's potential of giving to
1·11 Usually DISCORDANT
The potential of the 1 for independence and
self-centered attainment conflicts with the
1·22 Usually DISCORDANT
The potential of the 1 for independence and
self-centered attainment conflicts with the
REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 6
,INDIVIDUATION r.
INDEPENDENCE , ~ ATTAINMENT ~
."~
~
6 discordant aspects 0
1 very discordant aspect ~
"
~
Timid, afraid to stand on own two feet. .,
Possible approach to alleviate difficulties: "
The individual must work to be accepted
and feel comfortable in group situations.
.;
conflicts with the potential of the 2 to work ~ along with others. a~
of verbal expression of the 3. 0(Sometimes, the 3 expresses as a happy-golucky individual, conflicting with the l's ~ driving desire for attainment.)
'z
.'
(Sometimes, the self-centered potential of ;~. the1 is emphasized by the 4's potential for J
rigidity, causing a negative approach.) ..
. ,
~~~ best interests. .- or
The self-centered, goal-oriented. potential of
the 1 may conflict with the constant flux often ~
seen in the 5, producing a pull in different ;~
directions.
"
with the potential of the 6 for responsibility ~;~ .;
and concern for others. -1
:~
(Sometimes, the unique point of view of the .'
~ 7 enhances the attainment potential of the i: ': 1.) ~~
:f :1
(Sometimes, the self-centered potential of :~
the 1 may be emphasized by the potential of ;~
:.~ the 8 for stubbornness and rigidity, causing ,)
a negative approach.) i~'
Ii
.,
others may be expressed as creative activity. .;':r
In this situation, the attainment potential of '~
~. the 1 may be enhanced by the creative ~ potential of the 9.) l;.
~ ~ . ~i
..
potential of the 11 for idealistic or spiritual ~ ~
~t
" achievement. .:
i~
"
potential of the 22 for substantial material
achievement.
"
- -'
THE ASPECTS 295
"
-l
CHART6 I 2 I
RELATION
ASSOCIATION
THE ASPECTS _ ...
Summary of 2 aspects: 5 discordant aspects
5 harmonious aspects 1 very discordant aspect
2·1 Usually DISCORDANT
2·2 Usually VERY DISCORDANT group. Little patience with details or with
Meddling busybody, adding confusion rather people. Possibly withdrawn, shy and retiring.
than harmony to a situation. Possible approach to alleviate difficulties:
or the individual must work to learn system
Difficulty in finding fulfilling place in a and organization.
2·3 Usually HARMONIOUS (Sometimes, the 3 expresses through frivoThe potential of the 2 for cooperating and har- lous activity and a dilettante's approach
monizing is enhanced by the social awareness which may conflict with the potential of the
of the 3. 2 for cooperation.)
2·4 Usually HARMONIOUS (Sometimes the. potential for harmonizing
The potential of the 2 for cooperation and of the 2is stifled by the comparative fixity
harmonizing is enhanced by the potential of of approach of the 4.)
the 4 for system and order.
2·5 Usually DISCORDANT sonal desire for freedom and the state of flux
The potential of the 2 for cooperating and of the 5. ,
harmonizing conflicts with the strong per2·6 Usually HARMONIOUS positive side to this combination.
The potential of the 2 for cooperating is con- (The 2'6 individual must take responsibility
siderably enhanced by the potential of the 6 for for himself as well as others. He should not "
responsibility. The 6's ability to show friend- be reduced to a doormat because of his ~',
ship, affection and love provides a very desire to help others fulfill themselves.) )
2·7 UsuallyDISGQRDANT (Sometimes, the introspective potential of ')
The potential of the 2 for cooperating and har- the 7 is suppressed and the potential to :'i
monizing conflicts with the introspective po- share wisdom and knowledge is expressed
tential of the 7. The 7's appearance of being instead. This enhances the potential of the 2
"different" makes it difficult for the 7 to work for working together with others.)
well in groups most of .the time.
2·8 Usually DISCORDANT The 8 usually expresses a potential to lead ! ~--
The potential of the 2 for cooperating and rather than to be a cooperating member of a
harmonizing conflicts with the executive po- group. " tential of the 8 for material achievement.
2·9 Usually HARMONIOUS submerged by his desire to help others.) ,-
The potential of the 2 for cooperating and (The 9 often has trouble expressing its <
harmonizing is enhanced by the potential of positive potential and may prefer to receive c
the 9 for giving to others. rather than give. In this case, the potential
(The 2'9 individual must stay aware of his of the negative 9 would conflict with the
own needs so that he is not completely potential of the 2.) {:.'
2·11 Usually HARMONIOUS partial detriment to the 2 approach. "
The potential of the 2 for cooperating and (Sometimes, the potential of the 2 is expressharmonizing may be enhanced by the poten- ing on a relatively mundane level, while the :~
tial of the 11 for idealistic or spiritual achieve- potential of the 11 is expressing on a high .. ment. The nervous t~nsion of the 11 will be a spiritual level, thereby causing a conflict.) ':
"
2·22 Usually DISCORDANT to substantial material achievement. The nerThe potential of the 2 for being a cooperating vous tension of the 22 will act as a further
and harmonizing member of a group conflicts detriment to the 2 approach. :'::-',
with the potential of the 22 for leading the way -"
,
I -,
i
I '-I
,
!
I
I
1-
:
,
I
":,
296 REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 6
CHART6 3 EXPRESSION
THE ASPECTS
JOY OF LIVING
Summary of 3 aspects: 4 discordant aspects
6' harmonious aspects 1 very discordant aspect
3·1 Usually HARMONIOUS
3·2 Usually HARMONIOUS
3·3 Usually VERY DISCORDANT uncomfortable in even light social situation.
Frivolous. Little sense of purpose. Scattering Often shy and withdrawn.
of forces. Possible approach to alleviate the difficulor ties: The individual must work to learn to
Difficulty with self-expression. May hide feel- accept responsibility. He has to learn what
ings and emotions from self and others. Seems
is involved in being a friend.
3·4 Usually DISCORDANT enhanced by the constructive, systematic
The potential of the 3 for creative self- approach of the 4. The harmony or discord
expression and sociability conflicts with the depends on whether the 4 is strong and purpotential of the 4 for system and order. poseful or just rigidly set in his ways.}
(Sometimes, the self-expression of the 3 is
3·5 Usually HARMONIOUS (Sometimes, the restlessness, versatility and
The potential of the 3 for creative self-expres- love of change of the 5 combines with the
sion and sociability is enhanced by the poten- light and joy of the 3 to produce frivolity, or
tial of the 5 for the constructive use of freedom. in extremes, purposelessness and erratic
behavior.)
3·6 Usually HARMONIOUS and love. The potential for creative self-expresThe pott)!1ti,!l1 of the 3 for social awareness sion of both the 3 and 6 enhances the expressive
enhances the potential of the 6 for friendship capabilities.
3·7 Usually DISCORDANT of the 3 conflicts with the "different", less
The extrovert potential of the 3 conflicts with adaptable approach of the 7.
the introvert potential of the 7. The sociability
3·8 Usually DISCORDANT potential of the 8 for material achievement.
The potential of the 3 for creative self-expres- The adaptability of the 3 conflicts with the fixsion and sociability conflicts with the executive ity of the 8.
3·9 Usually HARMONIOUS capabilities.
The potential of the 3 for social awareness en- (The 9 often has trouble expressing its
hances the potential of the 9 for giving to positive potential and may prefer to receive
others. rather than give. In this case, the potential
The potential for creative self-expression of of the negative 9 would conflict with the
both the 3 and the 9 enhances the expressive potential of the 3.)
3·11 Usually HARMONIOUS potential of the 11 for idealistic or spiritual
The potential of the 3 for creative self- achievement. The lighter tone of the 3 may be
expression and social awareness enhances the a good foil for the seriousness of the 11.
3·22 Usually DISCORDANT and its potential for substantial material
The potential of the 3 for a light, less serious achievement.
tone conflicts with the serious tone of the 22
:
- - -~, _. ' ..
THE ASPECTS 29i
-.t
i
i CHART6 4 LIMITATION
ORDER " SERVICE
THE ASPECTS i
Summary of 4 aspects:
4 harmonious aspects 5 discordant aspects ;
1 harmonious or discordant aspect 1 very discordant aspect "
4·1 Usually HARMONIOUS
4·2 Usually HARMONIOUS
4·3 Usually DISCORDANT
4·4 Usually VERY DISCORDANT Often has no sense of time or committment. f,
Feels limited, tied down, frustrated. Very Actions are often irresponsible.
rigid attitudes-stubborn, obstinate. Obsessed Possible approach to alleviate difficulties: - with system and order; loses sight of the forest The individual must work to develop execu- ,
- because of his interest in the trees. tive ability. He has to develop the capabili- ,i
or ty of seeing things realistically, with a :.~
Very disorganized. Rarely feels accountable. practical approach. " " '.
- 4·5 Usually DISCORDANT conflicts with the strong desire of the 5 for ,
The potential of the 4 for system and order freedom.
4·6 Usually HARMONIOUS (Sometimes, the fixity of the '4, expressed as
The potential of the 4 for system and order either strength or rigidity, conflicts with the
enhances the potential of the 6 for responsibili- potential of the 6 for concern.)
ty and concern. ':~
4·7 Usually HARMONIOUS (Sometimes, the fixity of the 4, expressed as
~
The poteQ.ti~I, oJ the 4 for system and order either strength or rigidity, combined with
enhances the potential of the 7 for study and the introspective potential of the 7 produces ;~
research. a very self-centered approach and difficulty " in relating to others.)
4·8 Usually DISCORDANT but whose fixity stifles the potential for the use
The potential of the.4 for system and order of these capabilities. This aspect tends toward "
combined with the executive potential of the 8 a very rigid attitude-often an extremely
for achievement produces a self-centered per- obstinate person. ..
'. son whose executive capabilities are apparent, :
I
,
4·9 Usually DISCORDANT (Sometimes, the potential of the 4 for
The potential of the 4 for fixity of approach system and order may enhance the potential ::.,
conflicts with the potential of the 9 for giving of the 9 for expression.) "
to others. . .,
','
4·11 Usually DISCORDANT conflicts with the potential of the
i.
11 for :~
?,:.
The potential of the 4 for system and order idealistic or spiritual achievement. ~
" .:'
i~
4·22 Sometimes HARMONIOUS; sometimes DIS- achievement. The fixity of the 4 is apt to con- .'
~
CORDANT. flict with the ability of the 22 to take advan- ~
0
The potential of the 4 for system and order tage of situations with developing potential. In '.;
~~
may be enhanced by the potential of the 22 for any case, the nervous tension of the 22 will be a ,.
leading the way to substantial material partial detriment to the 4 approach.
I
I
::r-l ____ 2_98 __________________________ R_E_F_E_R_E_N_C_E_C_H_A_R_T_N_U_M_B_E_R_6 __ -,
..
, f
CHART6 5 ~ CONSTRUCTIVE FREEDOM ~
THE ASPECTS , : r--
:'
Summary of 5 aspects: 8 discordant aspects j
1 harmonious aspect 1 very discordant aspect ~
"
';1 1 harmonious or discordant aspect ,~ 5·1 Sometimes HARMONIOUS; sometimes DIS- ~ CORDANT. :
"
, 5·2 Usually DISCORDANT :; 1
.
~ 5·3 Usually HARMONIOUS ~ 5·4 Usually DISCORDANT
~
5·5 Usually VERY DISCORDANT Fear of freedom and fear of taking risks pro- ~ Too much freedom used carelessly. Emphasis duce a stagnant situation with attendant frus- don freedom rather than the constructive use of tration. Inability to take advantage of talents
freedom. Excessive pull toward food, drink,. and opportunities. :,~
.' drugs, sex-physical satisfaction with little Possible approach to alleviate difficulties:
thought of other pleasures or other potentials. The individual must wqrk to be aware of ~ Forces are often scattered bringing little con- individuality, to achieve independence and
crete result and much frustration. to attain some specific goals.
or
B5·6 Usually DISCORDANT conflicts with the potential of the 6 for ~
The strong persQnal desire of the 5 for freedom responsibility and concern for others.
1.;". >
5·7 Usually DISCORDANT (The free-wheeling potential of the 5 for .;;
The strong personal desire of the 5 for freedom freedom may conflict with the "different", .' J
conflicts with the introspective approach and relatively inflexible potential of the 7, caus- ,potential of the 7 for study and research. ing an even more discordant aspect.) ~~ ~ 5·8 ~~
Usually DISCORDANT the executive potential of the 8 for material i
I The free-wheeling potential of the 5 for free- achievement. ,! I dom conflicts with the fixity of approach and :{
I i
':
~
5·9 Usually DISCORDANT (Sometimes, the potential of the 5 for ,;
\;
The strong personal desire of the 5 for freedom freedom may enhance the potential of the 9 gconflicts with the potential of the 9 for giving for self -expression. ) ~<
:j
to others. :i:
~:
5·11 Usually DISCORDANT conflicts with the potential of the 11 for ideal- r;
The strong personal desire of the 5 for freedom istic or spiritual achievements for all. ;
5·22 Usually DISCORDANT conflicts with the potential of the 22 for subThe strong personal desire of the 5 for freedom stantial material achievement.
THE ASPECTS 299 ~ ~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------? , ,
CHART6 6
THE ASPECTS
Summary of 6 aspects:
6 harmonious aspects
I 6·1 Usually DISCORDANT
6·2 Usually HARMONIOUS
6·3 Usually HARMONIOUS
I 6·4 Usually HARMONIOUS i
,
6·5 I Usually DISCORDANT !
\
6·6 Usually VERY DISCORDANT
Overwhelmed with responsibility. Person finds
it difficult to recognize and care for own
needs because of the extreme and constant
needs of others (parents, children, spouse particularly). Person is often reduced to a nearslave because of acceptance of so much responsibility.
or
6·7 Usually DISCORDANT
The potential of the 6 for responsibility and
6·8 Usually DISCORDANT
The potential of th~ 6 for responsibility and
concern for athersconflicts with the executive
potential of the 8 for material achievement.
6·9 Usually HARMONIOUS
The potential of the 6 for responsibility and concern for others is enhanced by the potential
of the 9 for giving to others.
(The 6 gives because of his responsibility,
affection and love, The 9 gives because of
the humanitarian concern. This can be an extremely strong combination, but the 6'9
individual must stay aware of his own needs
so that he is not completely submerged by
6·11 Usually HARMONIOUS
The potential of the 6 for responsibility and
concern for others is enhanced by the potential
of the 11 for idealistic or spiritual achievements. The nervous tension of the'l1 will be a
partial detriment to the 6 approach.
6·22 Usually HARMONIOUS
The potential of the 6 for responsibility and
concern for others is enhanced by the potential
of the 22 for substantial material achievement.
The nervous tension of the 22 will be a partial
I
I
BALANCE
RESPONSIBILITY
LOVE
4 discordant aspects
1 very discorda,nt aspect
(Rare) Inability to accept responsibility and to
express friendship and love makes it difficult to
have any close relation. Difficulty handling
even the simplest everyday responsibilities produces a frightened individual.
Possible approach to alleviate difficulties:
The individual must work on self-expression. He has to learn to see the lighter side of
things, and learn to express the joy of living.
concern for others conflicts with the introspective potential of the 7.
The 8 is usually concerned with responsibility
only as far as its own self-centered goals are
concerned. The adaptable attitude of the 6
conflicts with the fixity of approach of the 8,
his desire to help others.
(The 9 often has trouble expressing its positive potential and may prefer to receive
rather than give. In this case, the potential
of the negative 9 would conflict with the
potential of the 6.)
The potential for creative self-expression of
both the 6 and 9 enhances the expressive
capabilities.
(The 6 is usually concerned with home,
family, friends in specific situations, while
the 11 is often concerned with broader,
more abstract dealings, producing the
potential for conflict.)
detriment to the 6 approach.
(The 6 is usually concerned with home,
family, friends, while the 22 is usually concerned with a larger scale of enterprise,
producing the potential for conflict.)
~ ij ., ,
i:
, "
)
,
j
,
"
.'
" ,
:
,
}
,
~
,
)'
-f
,~
-}
"'
:~
..
,.
300 REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 6
':1
! (
I CHART6 7 •!
ANALYSIS ~
UNDERSTANDING ~
THE ASPECTS !
~ f---
SSummary of 7 aspects: 8 discordant aspects ,2 harmonious aspects 1 very discordant aspect ,t
- 7·1 Usually DISCORDANT ~ )
7·2 Usually DISCORDANT "
7·3 Usually DISCORDANT ~ ;.
!
,
7·4 Usually HARMONIOUS K"
. i:.
7·5 Usually DISCORDANT ;\
- 7·6 Usually DISCORDANT ~
Z," '.,
7·7 .~ Usually VERY DISCORDANT Timid, shy, retiring. Very dependent on others 3Extremely self-contained and inflexible. A and most resentful of that dependency. Efforts ~J" to stand alone often thwarted. ., "different" point of view that may appear to ;:
others as considerably eccentric. Difficult to Possible approach to alleviate difficulties:
get to know-purposely put others off because The individual must work to express more :~ more comfortable keeping distance from freely. He has to learn to take advantage of
others. opportunities by being more adaptable. He :i
~ must also learn to express feelings honestly, ~ or rather than hiding them. .:I
•• 1 > ~ .,
iJ.
7·8 Usually DISCORDANT very self-centered approach and difficulty in <
:~ The introspective potential of the 7 conflicts relating to others. s
with the executive potential of the 8 for (Sometimes, the potential of the 7 for study
achievement. The inner nature of the 7 com- and research enhances the executive poten- ~ bined with the fixity of the 8 may produce a tial of the 8 for achievement.) ~ .'
:;
~ 7·9 Usually DISCORDANT (Sometimes, the "different" aproach of the gThe introspective potential of the 7 conflicts 7 enhances the 9's potential for self- ~l
~ with the potential of the 9 for giving. expression. ) t:
~}
,< ~ ,~l 7·11 Usually HARMONIOUS ~
(Sometimes, the introspective potential and I, The potential of the 7 for study and research the "different" approach of the 7 combine
, enhances the potential of the 11 for idealistic with the dreamy side of the 11 to produce a
or spiritual achievement. The nervous tension person somewhat removed from the reali- ~~ of the 11 will be a partial detriment to the 7 ties of the world.)
approach.
7·22 Usually DISCORDANT with the potential of the 22 for substantial maThe introspective potential of the 7 conflicts terial achievement.
,
...
I
THE ASPECTS 301
CHART6 8 MATERIAL SA TISF ACTION THE ASPECTS
Summary of 8 aspects: 8 discordant aspects
2 harmonious aspects 1 very discordant aspect
8·1 Usually HARMONIOUS
8·2 Usually DISCORDANT
8·3 Usually DISCORDANT
8·4 Usually DISCORDANT
8·5 Usually DISCORDANT .'~
8·6 Usually DISCORDANT
8·7 Usually DISCORDANT
8·8 Usually VERY DISCORDANT lack of material needs. Stubborn attitude, fixiVery materialistic-obsessed with goals and ty of approach stifles potential for growth.
achievements. Extremely rigid attitudes- Possible approach to alleviate difficulties:
stubborn and obstinate. Cold and aloof. No The individual must work to see and apprematter the attainment, he feels limited, tied date the inherent values-including but
down, frustrated. . not limited to the material values. He has '- .. (' . to learn to study and meditate on the inner or
Lack of concern with material things produces
satisfactions as well as the material satisfacan unrealistic, impractical, unworkable way
tions.
of approaching matters. ,Problems because of
8·9 Usually DISCORDANT for material achievement may be broad
The executive potential of the 8 for material enough to enhance the potential of the 9 for
achievement conflicts with the potential of the giving. In this instance, the 9's giving would
9 for giving. be on a more material plane than is usually
(Sometimes, the executive potential of the 8 the case.)
r~' , 8·11 Usually DISCORDANT achievement conflicts with the potential of the
The executive potential of the 8 for material 11 for idealistic or spiritual achievement.
8·22 Usually HARMONIOUS powerful aspect, as long as the 8 can be flexible
The executive potential of the 8 for material enough to take advantage of the opportunities.
achievement enhances the potential of the 22 (Sometimes, the fixity of the approach of
for leading the way to substantial material the 8 conflicts with the 22's broad, adaptachievement. The tension of the 22 will be a able approach.)
partial detriment. This can be an extremely
,
!
302
CHART6
THE ASPECTS
9
REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 6
SELFLESSNESS
HUMANIT ARIANISM
---- ~-------------------------------------------------------~;
Lr----------------------~ ~
Summary of 9 aspects:
5 harmonious aspects
5 discordant aspects
1 very discordant aspect
9·1 Usually DISCORDANT
9·2 Usually HARMONIOUS
9·3 Usually HARMONIOUS ~ '----~----------------------------------------------------------------------------~~ 9·4 Usually DISCORDANT
I
I
:~
9·5 Usually DISCORDANT
----~---------------------------------------------------------: ..
9·6 Usually HARMONIOUS
9·7 Usually DISCORDANT
9·8 Usually DISCORDANT ,~ .,:
---~-----------------------------------------------------------
9·9 Usually VERY DISCORDANT
Over~h~l~ed with giving. Finds it difficult to
recognize personal needs because all efforts
are directed toward others. Feels discontent,
trapped. Others are tired of heating of constant
sacrifice.
or
Very selfish. Concerned primarily with getting
rather than giving. Insensitive to others' needs.
Self-centered, usually inflexible.
Possible approach to alleviate difficulties:
The individual must work to win and preserve independence. He has to learn to
strive for material freedom at the same
time that the humanitarian qualities are
expressed.
i: I----~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I
9·11 Usually HARMONIOUS
The potential of the 9 for giving is enhanced by
the potential of the 11 for idealistic or spiritual
achievement.
9·22 Usually HARMONIOUS
The potential of the 9 for giving is enhanced by
the potential of the 22 for significant material
achievement.
----~----------------------------------------------------------------------------.
THE ASPECTS 303
i CHART6 11 I
1 ILLUMINATION
THE ASPECTS
Summary of 11 aspects:
5 harmonious aspects
5 discordant aspects
1 very discordant aspect
! 11·1 Usually DISCORDANT
i
,
i
11·2 Usually HARMONIOUS
... -- I
! 11·3 Usually HARMONIOUS
I
!
I 11·4 Usually DISCORDANT
i
[
11·5 Usually DISCORDANT
11·6 Usually HARMONIOUS
11·7 Usually HARMONIOUS
11·8 Usually DISCORDANT
11·9 Usually HARMONIOUS
.. '- .. , . 11·11 Usually VERY DISCORDANT
A lost dreamer. Idealistic motivations over- accomplishment, satisfaction of selfish needswhelmed by impractical schemes. Aiming to- includes little perception of spiritual satisfacward spirituality with no grasp of mundane tions.
realities. Much nervous tension. Possible approach to alleviate difficulties:
or The individual must lower his sights, work
Potential for accomplishment is masked in to achieve a more practical, realistic view.
idealistic, even inspirational words, but the He can try to use the enormous potential to
hidden motivation-personal power, material help others.
11·22 Usually DISCORDANT
The potential of the 11 for idealistic or spiri- (Sometimes, the potential of the 11 is prac-
'. tual achievement conflicts with the potential tical enough to enhance the potential of the
of the 22 for leading the way to substantial 22, leading to material progress. The nermaterial achievement. The nervous tension of vous tension is still a detriment.)
both the 11 and 22 act as an additional detriment.
304 REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 6
- i 'I ~
I CHART 6 22 I
~;
;
MASTER BUILDER 3THE ASPECTS ~
- &~ i:
, Summary of 22 aspects: "3 harmonious aspects ~ 1 harmonious or discordant aspect :~
6 discordant aspects ~ 1 very discordant aspect
22·1 Usually DISCORDANT ~
~
22·2
l
Usually DISCORDANT 'i
~
, "
"
22·3 Usually DISCORDANT '11
~ 22·4 ~ '>
Sometimes HARMONIOUS; sometimes DIS- ~; :: CORDANT ~~ "
22·5 Usually DISCORDANT ~ "
;~ 22·6 Usually HARMONIOUS ~ "'-;
,22·7 Usually DISCORDANT '.
" .>
22·8 Usually HARMONIOUS ,\.
.,
~ ,\
22·9 Usually:H:A'RMONIOUS ~. c'
:~ 22·11 Usually DISCORDANT "
~ :. 22·22 ,Usually VERY DISCORDANT ~ "
Overwhelmed by extreme potential of who has achieved for selfish ends. He finds lit- gawareness and capability plus intensified ner- tle of the pleasure or satisfaction he expected.
vous "tension. Difficult to amalgamate and The heightened nervous tension makes the ~ ...
assimilate the enormity of the potential in- path to achievement more difficult, the !l
volved in order to use talents at the desired high ultimate attainment unsatisfactory. ,rlevel. Usually, much confusion of intentions Possible approach to alleviate difficulties: (,
and much difficulty in organizing oneself to The individual must lower his sights. He "
move in a positive direction. ~ should work to achieve material freedom ~ or and the power which accompanies it, then
Potential for substantial material achievement learn to achieve the satisfaction which may
confused with personal attainment, use of per- be related to the material freedom at first, 4sonal power and self-centered material but is ultimately above the necessity for ~ accomplishment. The achievement, though material attainment. ;>
substantial, tends to overwhelm the individual ~ " , ." ,
"
,:
:
----
.. (-
306 IlEPEIlENCE CllA/lT NUMBEIl 7
CHART 7 THE KARMIC DEBT
I
I
THE KARMIC DEBT
DESCRIPTION
30;
The Karmic Debt is a significant difficulty in this life as payment for the misapplication of energies in a past life. See
Chapter 11, page 121.
In this section, the following are discussed:
The cause of the Karmic Debt.
The characteristics manifested in this life due to the Karmic
Debt.
The changes necessary in this life to reduce or remove the difficulties encountered.
The specific effect of the Karmic Debt on the Life Path, Expression and Soul Urge are shown below. The specific effect on the
Birthday is already included in the description of the Birthday
in CHART 5: THE BIRTHDAY.
IN THE LIFE PATH
Expression of the Karmic Debt through the Life Path .
.. '- .. (" ).
IN THE EXPRESSION.
Expre!;sion of the Karmic Debt through the Expression.
IN THE SOUL URGE
Expression of the Karmic Debt through the Soul Urge.
This chart contains pages for only 1, 4, 5 and 7 since these are
the only numbers involved with Karmic Debt.
I
1
308 REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 7
CHART7 1 INDIVIDUATION
INDEPENDENCE
ATTAINMENT
THE KARMIC DEBT
1-
DESCRIPTION
'1
The 19/1' Karmic Debt developed from the abuse ity to act on his own. He is unhappy' with his
of power in a past life-acting in a completely self- dependent nature, but finds solace by blaming the
centered manner, blind to everything except a environment or other people for his inability to
selfish fulfillment of one's own desires. The 1 and 9 stand on his own two feet.
behind the 1 indicate the self-centered (negative 1) In this life, the subject will continue to meet with
misused ambitions (negative 9) manifested in a substantial difficulties unless (1) he can look past previous life. his own needs to the needs of others, OR (2) he
The 19/1 energy tends to exhibit the traits of the can work toward independence no matter what
negative 1 in one of two extreme directions. forces are tending to keep him weak and depen-
(1) The subject may be completely immersed in dent. Awareness of the Karmic Debt will produce
his own concerns and may have great difficulty clarity about one's own needs, others' needs and
becoming aware of others' needs. He often undoes the relation between them. If, instead, the subject
, himself because of his inability to rel!listically see continues to be (1) egotistical, dominating and
himself in relation to others. He is constantly sur- aggressive, OR (2) lazy, fearful and servile, the
prised by others' negative reactions to his problems will be magnified.
endeavors. OR (2) The subject displays an inabilIN THE LIFE PATH
Although the subject can see the opportunities, the misapplied energies, often exposed as the "
path is beset with obstacles, many of his own mak- dominating, selfish person he is.
ing. If, instead, the subject is struggling with :
If the subject confuses independence and self- dependence, he will find himself constantly sad- "
.':'~
centeredness, he will find that his egotistical dIed with strong pressures keeping him from ~
approach limits his awareness of the environment. breaking free. He will probably waste much time
His actions, commenced with positive ends in and energy because of his inability to read the
sight, will oftel1ruqdo the very things he hoped to realities of the environment and use them to his adaccomplish, leaving him further behind than when vantage.
he started. He will find himself trapped by his own \
-I IN THE EXPRESSION .-
;~ c·
I
The subject will probably have difficulty express- his capabilities are downgraded, OR, his weak, " ing his talents to his advantage. His dominating, dependent ways will make it difficult for others to , self-centered approach may turn others off so that view and appreciate his abilities. ".'
IN THE SOUL URGE .:~
The strong motivational force of the subject's inner weaknesses, no matter how he attempts to hide ," ,
, desires will be difficult to fulfill. Others will read them. His innermost secrets may be exposed to his ~ I his self-centered ways or his dependent disadvantage. ~~ 1 < '., ~
~~
:~ ,
The 2 page and 3 page oj this chart are not
applicable and are omitted.
;
I .. -~- -
..
I
I
Ir-___ T_H_E __ K_A_R_M __ I_C_D_E __ B_T _____________________________________________________________ 3_0_9________ ~I CHART7 4 5k~~~TION ~i.:
SERVICE ~THE KARMIC DEBT ~DESCRIPTION
The 13/4 Karmic Debt developed from a lack of
application to work requiring accomplishment in a
past life-dawdling in frivolous activity, sidestepping work, burdening others with his rightful
share of work. The 1 and 3 behind the 4 indicate
the self-centered (negative 1), frivolous and superficial ways (negative 3) manifested in a previous
life.
The 13/4 tends to exhibit the traits of the negative
4. His approach is rigid, obstinate, dogmatic.
Although the subject feels limited, restricted,
boxed in on all sides, he usually rationalizes his
situation. He finds it extremely difficult to change
his course to a more productive direction. When he
complains about the limitations he feels, he
accepts little of the responsibility for the preIN THE LIFE PATH
The subject will find his opportunities considerably limiting. No matter his abilities or
motivation, he will seem to keep running into
stone walls, boxed in with few acceptable options.
The opportunities may be as restrictive as they ap-
'- .. (- ).
IN THE EXPRESSION
The subject pursues his abilities doggedly in a
rigid, one-track direction. The intensity of his
drive may work to his advantage, but the effect of
IN THE SOUL URGE
The subject is discontent with the limitations imposed by his significant work load. He often accomplishes the work at hand but receives little
satisfaction from his achievement. He is constantly
dicaments in which he feels trapped.
In this life, the subject will continue to meet with
substantial difficulties unless he works hard, far
harder than his share, a good part of the time. He
must apply himself to the work at hand, be aware
of the larger picture while still completing all the
details. He has to accept the stringent limitations
produced by his inordinate work load. Awareness
of the Karmic Debt will stay the subject from looking for easier directions. This awareness can aid in
finding constructive paths for development,
though these paths, too, will demand much in the
way of work. If, instead, the subject chooses to be
lazy, indifferent, negative or involved with trivia,
the problems will be magnified.
pear to the subject. More likely, the limitations are
produced or reinforced by the subject's unbending
views coupled with his lack of constructive
adaptability.
this drive is likely to be negated by the limitations
of his vision.
looking for easier directions to follow, and though
few easier paths appear, he continues a frustrating
search for them.
j 310 REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 7
:I-----------------iI
CHART 7 5
\
a ..
~~
CONSTRUCTIVE FREEDOM :~
r THE KARMIC DEBT c- ---~
DESCRIPTION ~ - ~
The 14/5 Karmic Debt developed from a misuse of to physical sensations-may overindulge in eating, ~
freedom in a past life. The subject may have fouI).d sensuality, liquor, drugs. He craves the new and ~
~ freedom for himself at others' expense or in a man- exciting with little sense of proportion. t ner destructive to his interests. He may have In this life, the subject will continue to meet with
become overlyinvolved in physical pleasures.to the substantial difficulties unless (1) he learns to profit ~ detriment of his development. The 1 and 4 behind <J
from his experiences instead of repeating mistakes, the 5 indicate the self-centered (negative 1) ir- ~ and (2) he curbs his excessive appetite for physical ;,~
responsibility and lack of accountability (negative stimulation. The difficulties encountered may take .~
4) manifested in a previous life. the form of delay or loss. Awareness of the Karmic ~ [; The 14/5 tends to exhibit the traits of the negative . Debt will allow a more constructive use of per- M
5. He is apt to be somewhat erratic, jumping from sonal freedom. If, instead, the subject continues to §~
.: activity to activity-a rolling stone with little sense be restless, impatient and scattering, the problems ~
~
.'.
of accomplishment. He tends to pleasures related will be magnified. ~ ~ ,;
J
:~ r;
~ IN THE LIFE PATH rt
~J The subject must learn the lesson of change-to Instead of appreciating the beauties which enter ,
•begin and nurture an interest or relation, to· ex- and leave the life, the subject may be beset with ~ "
perience it in full bloom, to detach from it when it disappointment at losses which are either beyond
is completed. This will tend to be a difficult lesson. his control or caused by his lack of awareness. "
~~ ~ ~~ ~. " > .:-
,IN THE EXPRESSION
.~ , The subject has an unrealistic or unclear view of regroup his energies to move ahead. The vague, " '. the use and limitations of his talents. He is apt to dreamy or impractical nature of his vocational ~ meet disappointment in his work, must constantly commitment adds to the difficulties. <, ~ ~I ~ i
IN THE SOUL URGE ".
t",
The subject's important personal relationships may tions. His impatience and light view of respon- :
be marked by unexpected delays and interrup- sibility add to the problems. , c: , t~ ~ :~ ,
~ ~; "The 6 page of this chart is not applicable and is
omitted.
!
-
:
----- ---_. ____ L
!
THE KARMIC DEBT
CHART7
THE KARMIC DEBT
DESCRIPTION
7 ANALYSIS
UNDERSTANDING
311
The 16/7 Karmic Debt developed from involve- well. Permanent relations-marriage, business
ment in unusual or illicit love affairsin a past life, partnerships, etc.-tend to be difficult to mainaffairs which caused suffering to others. The 1 and tain.
6 behind the 7 indicate the self-centered (negative In this life, the subject will continue to meet with
1) lack of responsibility and distortion of loving- substantial difficulties unless he devotes himself to
feelings (negative 6) manifested in a previous life. selfless, loving ways, subordinating his own perThe 16/7 tends to exhibit the traits of the negative sonal needs. He is apt to' meet with strangely
7. The subject's "differentness" is often apparent. manifesting deceptions or losses which often
His manner may make him difficult to approach. appear to be quirks of fate. Awareness of the KarHe is apt to be most concerned with himself- mic Debt will provide an optimistic understanding
possibly self-centered but, at the least, con- and the ability to keep faith in himself and the
siderably introspective. His growth will follow his universe despite adversity. If, instead, the subject
own leanings-his outward actions may often not expresses pride and vanity, the difficulties will be
be what others expect. He may easily disconcert or magnified.
confuse others, even those who feel they know him
IN THE LIFE PATH
Life is likely to provide the subject with many
examples of the transient nature of reality. This
impermanence is apt to be expressed in the meaningful areas in which he would like to exhibit
positive growth. His status, wealth or power may
change for the worse. His loving relations may
.. (" ).
IN THE EXPRESSION
The subject is apt to undo himself in some unexpected way in vocational matters, or may lose
what he has gained due to some sudden or unusual
IN THE SOUL URGE
The subject's faith in his selection of friends and
associates is apt to be severely tested. People on
whom he relies may prove unreliable. People he
trusts may act against his interests in a manner difThe 8, 9, 11 and 22 pages of this chart are not
applicable and are omitted.
shift abruptly. Other matters may end in sudden
or unusual ways. The subject may be the cause of
his own undoing, or may be the seeming recipient
of some curious quirk of fate. Acceptance of impermanence will ease the burden.
circumstances. He should not lean too heavily on
his material attributes-his wealth, status and
power may prove ephemeral.
ficult for him to comprehend. Close friends may
cease being close because of some sudden or
unusual circumstances.
312 REFEHI::.\'CE ClfAHT NUMBER 8
CHART 8 THE INTENSITY TABLE
THE INTENSITY TABLE 313
[ tGI ~I
! See Chapter 12, page 129. ~PRIME INTENSIFIER
~I ---------g'1 The Prime Intensifier, the Intensity Point appearing in largest ~I quantity, indicates strong and obvious characteristics. ~:I
!
! ,
I
I
!
i
I
INTENSITY POINT MORE THAN AVERAGE
An Intensity Point is a modifier with more than an average
quantity of a number, indicates characteristics of above
average intensity.
AVERAGE QUANTITY OF NUMBER
INTENSITY POINT LESS THAN AVERAGE
. '- .. (" ,.
An Intensity Point with less than an average quantity of a
number indicates characteristics of below average intensity.
" I'':
,
I
~ ;J
:,1
.• f--------------,,~
., MODIFIED KARMIC LESSON ~ 4A Modified Karmic Lesson is a Karmic Lesson in which the 0
~.
Karmic Lesson number also appears as a core element. ; I
I :1
,"---------------------------------------------.:, I !·1 KARMIC LESSON l5 ~ I A Karmic Lesson is a modifier indicating potential weaknesses, }
! difficulties or obstacles because the modifier energy has not 1been experienced in past lives. i1
·~t
,~ "
, ,L-______________________________________ ;;
",
~
i
i
!
':I------;:==============::::;-------~-_=___------~__i [
i
l CHARTS 1 INDIVIDUATION t,i
314 REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 8
INDEPENDENCE
ATTAINMENT !INTENSITY T ABLE ~
PRIME INTENSIFIER
Important to follow own bent and get needs met.
If individual has difficulty getting needs met, possibly because of conflict of core numbers, the resultant frustration is likely to be among the most
obvious strong traits.
... --~~
~
~ ~
,
~
~
~ ;~
f----+-------------------------------------------_!
INTENSITY POINT MORE THAN AVERAGE
Five or more:
• Self centered ness and/or domination likely to
be very strong and block possibilities for
growth.
Four:
• Self-centered. Own interests are strong and
must be satisfied.
• Lack of flexibility and adaptability. Must do
things own way.
• Tends to control and dominate, but the domination usually offends others and works against
the individual's best interests. Sometimes, if
other numbers indicate, domination is accomplished by being weak and helpless and needing
aid from others.
• Exhibits much courage, often in face of great
difficulties.
• Potential to use original ideas and leadership
abilities for positive ends likely to be stifled by
self-centered lack of awareness.
~.~
"
~
.,
" '.
~ c·
:,1
1~
1----+--------------------------------------------:;AVERAGE QUANTITY OF NUMBER
THREE l'S
INTENSITY POINT LESS THAN AVERAGE
One or two:
• Lack of confidence in own aQilities makes it
difficult to promoteseif. Has difficulty standing up for own rights against others' wills;
often feels put down by authority.
MODIFIED KARMIC LESSON
• Lack of confidence in own abilities makes it
difficult to promote self. Has difficulty standind up for own rights against others' wills,
often feels put down by authority.
• Still learning to be independent. Lacks consistent motivation to follow ambitions. Often
makes excuses for lower position or lack of
direction, or rationalizes the difficulties
encountered.
• Still learning to be independent. Lacks consistent motivation to follow ambitions. Often
makes excuses for lower position or lack of
direction, or rationalizes the difficulties
encountered.
I---~--------------------------------------------~ KARMIC LESSON
In past lives, the subject showed a lack of independence, confidence and ambition.
These qualities will play an important part in the
subject's life. He will find himself in situations
where he must be able to express his independence
or be overwhelmed by others' dominating ways.
He must learn to make decisions for himself or fall
victim to others' decisiQns. He must develop his
own ambition as a positive force for his development.
This Karmic Lesson is extremely rare and, when
found, indicates a significant coloration of the
core. Those people with this lesson usually have
little faith in their own powers, look to others for
direction, are pressured by others' decisions
because of their own difficulty and/or fear in
making decisions. They have great difficulty promoting their own capabilities. Life is apt to be trying until they accept the necessity of standing on
their own feet.
:---+------------------------------------------------------------------------------"
I
~================~---------------------------------------------fCHART8 2 RELATION ~THE INTENSITY TABLE 315
COOPERATION RINTENSITY T ABLE ~f-r------------~-----------------------------.---- ~PRIME INTENSIFIER
• Extremely considerate, helpful, friendly. These
are likely to be among most obvious strong
traits.
• Very sensitive to others' needs.
INTENSITY POINT MORE THAN AVERAGE
Four or more:
• Feels considerate, helpful and friendly. Although manifesting, these traits tend to be
negated by difficulties in distinguishing the best
way to help. Good efforts often go to waste.
• Extremely sensitive. Often hurt by what they
perceive to be others' insensitivity. The sensitivity may be emotionally and/or mentally
draining on family and friends.
• Feelings of subservience, inferiority or fear of
others may strongly mark lives.
• Very fine with detail work. May get so involved with detail that sight of the larger picture is lost.
• Appreciation of the arts.
AVERAGE QUANTITY OF NUMBER
ONE 2
.. (- ,.
• Emotional.
Two or three:
• Most considerate of others. Helpful, cooperative and friendly. Expresses a tactful, diplomatic manner in most situations.
• Very sensitive. As a child and young adult, apt
to be shy and retiring.
• Must work to resolve:
Feelings of subservience, OR
Feelings of inferiority, OR
Inner fear of others.
• Good with details.
• Appreciation of the arts.
• Emotional.
INTENSITY POINT LESS THAN AVERAGE
Zero:
See Karmic Lesson or Modified Karmic Lesson
below.
MODIFIED KARMIC LESSON
The subject will find himself in situations where
sensitivity, consideration, diplomacy and concern
with detail are necessary for positive development.
He is likely to have these traits developed so that
they stand him in good stead.
~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------"
KARMIC LESSON
In past lives, the subject showed a lack of sensitivity and consideration for others, a lack of awareness of details.
Sensitivity, consideration and detail work will
play an important part in the life. The subject will
find himself in situations where a sensitive nature
and a diplomatic manner. are imperative for
positive development. His environment will include substantial work involved with detail, often
presented so that the details tend to obscure the
larger picture.
Most people with this Karmic Lesson are born
with a great deal of sensitivity and consideration
as well as a sense of the importance of detail.
Those lacking the 2 who are insensitive, inconsiderate and· unwilling to be bothered with detail
work are likely to meet with difficulties until they
choose to learn the lesson.
-
316
CHARTS
INTENSITY TABLE
PRIME INTENSIFIER
3
Artistic bent, imaginative approach and/or verbal
ability are likely to be among most obvious strong
traits.
REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 8
EXPRESSION
JOY OF LIVING
'.
~ ----~------------------------------------------------------------------------------
INTENSITY POINT MORE THAN AVERAGE
Four or more:
• Strong indication of artistic talent-music, art,
writing, etc.
• Excellent imagination.
• Strong capability with words-excellent verbal
and/or written self-expression.
• Strong self-interest, possibly self-centered, even
selfish.
AVERAGE QUANTITY OF NUMBER
ONE or TWO 3's
• May scatter energies or act immoderately
against own best interests.
Three:
• Artistic talent-music, art, writing, etc.
• Imaginative.
• Good verbal and/or written capabilities.
• Many interests may make it difficult to concentrate to support own best interests.
I----+-------------------------------------,---------~'·
INTENSITY POINT LESS THAN AVERAGE
Zero:
See Karmic· Lesson or Modified Karmic Lesson
below.
MODIFIED KARMIC LESSON
Problems with expression and social encounters good at selling himself. It's important for this subare likely to occur. He will have to work to express ject to work to build his confidence so that he can
his feelings and will tend to be somewhat uncom- express himself with greater facility.
fortable in social situations. He probably isn't too
KARMIC LESSON
In past lives, the subject showed little concern
with expressing himself, little joie de vivre.
Difficulties with expression and problems in social
encounters will play an important part in the life.
Usually, the subject will lack confidence. He will
rarely feel comfortable enough to express his feelings, will tend to be withdrawn or uncomfortable
in social situations, will have difficulty promoting
himself. His feelings of inferiority may project to
others as a defeatist attitude. Unless he gains confidence in himself and improves his expressive
abilities, he will find these negative traits blocking
his growth.
An occasional subject will not lack in confidence
or verbal ability, but the manner of expression
-aggressive, over-dramatic or insensitive-will
prove a stumbling block. This subject may well eXpress his delight in the joy of living in a manner
that is offensive-sometimes in a manner that puts
pressure on others.
i
i
I-__ T_H_E_I_N_T_E_N_S_I_T_Y_T_A_B_L_E _____________________________ 3_1_7 ________CHART8
INTENSITY TABLE
4 LIMITATION
ORDER
SERVICE ~I------------------------------~"~----------------------~ ~PRIME INTENSIFIER
Practical, organized approach, ability to concentrate and work hard, . capability at detail and
routine are likely to be among most obvious
strong traits.
INTENSITY POINT MORE THAN AVERAGE
Four or more:
• Practical, organized approach, ability to concentrate and work hard, capability at detail
and routine-these traits are likely to be the
basis for a significant portion of the work accomplished. The work may appear to be
menial or below the individual's apparent
ability, but the subject is likely to be content
or comfortably rationalize the work.
AVERAGE QUANTITY OF NUMBER
ONE 4
Two or three:
• Practical approach.
• Very capable at organizing, systematizing.
• Ability to concentrate on work to be done,
even if not particularly interested in the work.
• Good at detail and routine work.
• Hard worker when necessary.
• Tendency to be stubborn (if confirmed by
other numbers).
INTENSITY POINT LESS THAN AVERAGE
Zero:
See Karmic Lesson (or Modified Ka~mic Lesson
below.
MODIFIED KARMIC LESSON
Practicality, organization, hard work and concern
with detail will play an important part in the subject's life. He will find that he can accomplish
only by starting at the beginning of a task and
working hard with great care and concern for
detail to its completion. He is likely to innately
understand this lesson because of the 4 in the
core. He can probably concentrate his efforts no
matter what the seeming limitations.
..:;
-:
'. "
~
1 ~4_----------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~
KARMIC LESSON
In past lives, the subject showed a lack of awareness of practicality, organization, hard work and
concern with detail. These qualities will play an
important part in a subject's life.
If the individual's core is strong in 2, 6 or 8 energy,
he is Hkely to innately understand this lesson.
He'll be willing and able to work long, hard and
patiently, concentrating his efforts and continuing no matter what the seeming limitations.
If the individual's core is strong in 1, 3 or 5 energy,
he is likely to think of hard work as a limitation.
He's likely to look for easy ways out to avoid putting forth the required effort. He is apt to be
severely limited in his growth until he is willing to
accept the need for working hard and patiently.
"
i 318 REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 8
;i------------------~~--------------------------------------------------------------------__4

I
I
CHART~ t> l
INTENSITY TABLE CONSTRUCTIVE FREEDOMl :-- t--------------------------------------------------------.. ----,; ~------------------------~ ~
PRIME INTENSIFIER
Versatility, resourcefulness, unusual or unconventional approach, many interests are likely to be
among most obvious traits. If core numbers emphasize 2,4,6, these characteristics are likely to be
considerably reduced.
~
2
~ r:
~
:~ ~I ____ ~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------,:
INTENSITY POINT MORE THAN AVERAGE
Seven or more:
• Extremely versatile and resourceful.
• Calls attention to self because of unusual or unconventional approach.
• Interested in everything. Tends to scatter
energies.
• Must be free to do things own way. Will not
allow any interference with personal freedom.
• Nervous temperament. Often acts impulsively.
AVERAGE QUANTITY OF NUMBER
THREE, FOUR or FIVE 5's
• Tendency to abandon old ways for new, exciting avenues.
Six:
• Many interests, possibly lack of application due
to restless nature.
• Versatile and resourceful.
• Unusual or unconventional approach.
• Strong interest in being free may emphasize
own self-centered needs.
• Actions may stem from impulsive nature.
INTENSITY POINT LESS THAN AVERAGE
One, two:
• Lack of adaptability.
• Limited understanding of others due to inability to benefit from experience. Probably approaches situations with mind made up and
doesn't appreciate lessons to be learned from
MODIFIED KARMIC LESSON
• Lack of adaptability.
situations encountered.
• Limits experience available because of fears,
insecurities or rigid approach.
• Stays with situations or people long after productiveness has been exhausted.
situations encountered.
• Limits experience available because of fears,
insecurities or rigid approach.
.~
:jr--r---K-A-R-M-I-C-,-L-E-S-SO--N-----------------------------------------------'}• Limited understanding of others due to inability to benefit from experience. Probably approaches situations with mind made up and
doesn't appreciate lessons to be learned from • Stays with situations or people long after productiveness has been exhausted.
In past lives, the subject showed a lack of
awareness of the uses of freedom and change.
These qualities play an important part in the subject's life.
His life is likely to have significant change and
unceI;tainty and he must learn to adapt and deal
with situations with versatility. He probably has
little understanding or tolerance of others' reactions because he has shown little deep interest in
others, has kept himself from profiting from experience and has tended to keep away from new
experiences which might prove beneficial.
This Karmic Lesson is extremely rare and, wh~n
found, indicates a significant coloration of the
core.
i
THE INTENSTY TABLE 319 i
I
j
lr.===C=H=A=R=T=8========:::::::;------6-------:----------:BALANCE tI INTENSITY TABLE RESPONSIBILITY ~PRIME INTENSIFIER
Strong sense of responsibility, ability to balance
situations and help others are likely to be among
most obvious strong traits.
INTENSITY POINT MORE THAN AVERAGE
Four or more:
• Very strong sense of responsibility. May accept responsibilities even to own detriment.
• Helps others by balancing situations to produce harmony or by helping with others'
responsibilities. May accept far more than own
share of responsibility with little complaint.
• Rigid standards, not easily changed.
• Very strong opinions, not easily changed.
• Significant artistic ability.
Three:
• Willing to assume much responsibility.
• Helps others by balancing situations to produce harmony or by helping with others'
responsibilities.
• Strong ideals.
• Strong opinions.
:i r--r------------------------------------------------------------------------------j.AVERAGE QUANTITY OF NUMBER
ONE or TWO 6's
INTENSITY POINT LESS THAN AVERAGE
Zero: - .. (" ).
See Karmic Lesson or Modified Karmic Lesson
below.
MODIFIED KARMIC LESSON
Responsibility will play an important part in the
life. Subject is likely to have much responsibility
to carry but be willing and able to accept. He is
likely to understand that family and friends will
depend on him for support, and will be there
when needed.
KARMIC LESSON
In past lives, the subject showed a lack of
awareness of duties and responsibilities.
Responsibility will play an important part in the
life. The subject is likely to have much responsibility to carry. He is likely to feel the pressure of
caring for others who cannot or will not care for
themselves. People will seI)se that he can support
a heavier load than others and will lean on him or
depend on him much more than he might prefer.
Family and friends, instead of helping with
He will be capable of balancing situations and
serving others, and will show these traits strongly
in marriage and parenting situations where these
abilities are likely to be necessary to keep affairs
running smoothly.
responsibility are apt, rather, to be the primary
burden. The subject must learn, all on his own,
how to comfortably deal with the responsibility
that is his.
The subject will find much work is required to
succeed in marriage (and parenthood). Much effort in balancing and serving others is necessary.
Unless the individual is willing and able to learn
this, marriage is likely to falter.
)
;
320 REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 8
~
CHART 8 7 ~ ANALYSIS i
UNDERSTANDING r
INTENSITY TABLE r r-- ~------------------~-----------------------------------~ ~----------------------~ <
PRIME INTENSIFIER
Rare.
Excellent mind, scientific or mathematical abilities
and unusual viewpoint likely to be among most
obvious strong traits.
INTENSITY POINT MORE THAN AVERAGE
Two or more:
• Fine mind, capable of analysis, research.
• Suppresses feelings to a large extent.
• Technical ability, scientific or mathematical
talents.
• May want to search for and understand fundamentals, possibly in metaphysical studies.
• Unusual viewpoint or out-of-the-ordinary ideas.
r.
~
~ ~
~ ,
-\
~ ~--r--------------------------------------------------------------------------------i
:,~
AVERAGE QUANTITY OF NUMBER
ZERO or ONE 7
~--r---------------------------------------------~---------------------------------' INTENSITY POINT LESS THAN AVERAGE
Zero:
See Karmic Lesson or Modified Karmic Lesson
below.
~~----------------------------------------------------------------------------~---' MODIFIED KARMIC LESSON
An appreciation of the non-material world will
play an important part in the subject's life. He's
likely to understand that increasing faith in
KARMIC LESSON
In past lives, the subject showed a lack of awareness of the inner life, refusal to study or understand the deeper spiritual values.
Since we live in an age in which little regard is
placed on spiritual values, this lesson is very comspiritual values may bring him deep and lasting
peace.
mono The subject will have to learn an appreciation of the non-material world. Although faith in
spiritual values may be a key to growth, it's likely
to be of little interest to the individual.
:~======T=H=E=I=N=T=E==N=S=IT==Y=T=A=B=L=E==~ ________________________________________________________ 3_21 ______ ~~~'-r--~-N-:-:-:-:-~-T-Y-T-A-B-L-E-J-----8-·--M-A-T-E-R-I-A_L_S_A_T_I_S_F_A_C_T_IO_N ___ .,, __ ~\I
I
!
PRIME INTENSIFIER
Rare.
Interest in money, status, power are likely to be
among most obvious traits. These interests may
lead to an unbalanced emphasis on material matters.
';1'1'----,[------------------------------------------::,! INTENSITY POINT MORE THAN AVERAGE ~i
i
i
Two or more:
• Innate business ability may lead to success in
commercial fields.
• Innate understanding of how to take an idea
and make it into a profitable business.
• Balanced practical judgement, particularly in
business matters. Can approach business affairs without being carried away with feelings.
AVERAGE QUANTITY OF NUMBER
ONES
• Probably suppresses a good deal of feelings in
areas other than business.
• May place too much stress on personal
achievement, may lead to exclusion of other
interests or lack of concern for others' needs.
• May make difficulties for self because of need
to achieve money, status, power. No matter
how much is achieved, may still feel frust~ated
in not achieving more.
INTENSITY POINT LESS THAN AVERAGE "- ,.(- ).
Zero:
See Karmic Lesson or Modified Karmic Lesson
below.
:!
"
'{
~ ~ :r~r----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~
MODIFIED KARMIC LESSON ~
A slightly disbalanced perspective on the relation understands how to deal with money and material
of money to his life is likely to cause difficulties matters with ease, he may feel uncomfortable
in money matters which may well affect other pressures related to financial dependence or overareas of the individual's life. Until the subject balanced striving for attainment. I~~
~:,
~-+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~,~
KARMIC LESSON
In past lives, the subject showed a lack of
awareness of the practical necessities of life including the need to earn and use mOIiey.
In this life, his attitude toward money is likely to
play an important part. He must learn to use and
understand money so that a lack of understanding
or misuse does not cause unnecessary problems.
Often, a lack of awareness about the value of
money may severely affect the ability to be independent (as, for instance, a long-time wife with no
earning capability desiring a divorce.)
In this life, the individual must learn to handle his
own material affairs and make reasonable and
practical judgements. Until the subject learns
how to do this with ease, he will feel significantly
limited in his ability to find anything approaching
complete satisfaction with himself.
~-
l:---+ ______________________________________________________ ~----------------------------__ ___;j
I "
i
i
:
:1 322 REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 8
"~============~--------------~------------~l

I CHARTS 9 SELFLESSNESS iINTENSITY TABLE HUMANITARIANISM ~ ~ ~----------------------------------------------------------i
~----------------------~ ~
PRIME INTENSIFIER
Strong creative capability or humanitarian concerns are likely to be among most obvious strong
traits.
INTENSITY POINT MORE THAN AVERAGE
Five or more:
• High level creative ability may be expressed in
artistic or literary endeavors. May have sudden
flashes of intuition.
• Very emotional feelings are likely to be suppressed or expressed in poorly balanced ways.
• Overly sensitive.
• Own strong point of view held rigidly, little affected by others' position, feeling or arguments.
Four:
• High level creative ability may be expressed in
artistic or literary endeavors.
• Humanitarian approach.
• Very emotional.
~-4---------------------------------------------------------------------------------,
AVERAGE QUANTITY OF NUMBER
TWO or THREE 9's
INTENSITY POINT LESS THAN AVERAGE
One:
• Little awareness of others' feelin'gs.
• Little sympathy or compassion shown.
• Somewhat restricted point of view.
MODIFIED KARMIC LESSON
Although a feeling and aware person, the subject
is likely to have own strong needs which tend to
make him self-centered and somewhat unconKARMIC LESSON
In past lives, the subject showed little concern for
others.
In this life, the subject is likely to be self-centered
and unaware of or repressing his own feelings. He
will probably be subjected to much in the way of
cerned with others' needs. Until subject becomes
more selfless than self-centered, he is likely to be
subject to emotional upsets.
emotional upsets, disappointments, and separations until he learns to be concerned with
others-to show compassion and love, to clearly
express his feelings and respond to others' feelings. This rare lesson indicates a significant
coloration of the core.
.,
i 'r-+-------------------------------------------------------------------~ !
I
THE INTENSITY TABLE
CHARTS
INTENSITY TABLE
PRIME INTENSIFIER
Not applicable
11 . ILLUMINATION
INTENSITY POINT MORE THAN AVERAGE
Not applicable
AVERAGE QUANTITY OF NUMBER
Not applicable
INTENSITY POINT LESS THAN AVERAGE
Not applicable
'- .. (. ,.
323
i::~•~~L~~~~~~1~3'~~~~~.,"... ;..<"
~:=.' ~"
.~ ;
~+---------------------------------------------------------------------j
MODIFIED KARMIC DEBT
Not applicable
~ ;t
~ .
. : .
. ,
~.
~+---------------------------------------------------------------------k ~'
KARMIC DEBT
Not applicable rc5'
~
·1 324 REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 8
·;·~i -;:::=================::;~ __________ :--________ ------',
CHART 8
INTENSITY TABLE
22 MASTER BUILDER
r-- r------------------------------------------------; ~-------------------J 1PRIME INTENSIFIER
Not applicable
INTENSITY POINT MORE THAN AVERAGE
Not applicable
.r.
:
!
~
r--+------------------------------------------------------~,
AVERAGE QUANTITY OF NUMBER
Not applicable
~:
r-~--------------------------------------------:
INTENSITY POINT LESS THAN AVERAGE
Not applicable
MODIFIED KARMIC DEBT
Not applicable
'"
~ <{
r-~-------------------------------------------------------------------~. KARMIC DEBT
Not applicable
r--t----------------------------------------j
:
.. r·
!,'
I
!
!
:;,1,---____ 3_2_6 ________________________ -.,H_E_F_E_H_E_i"_'C_; E_' _C_II_A_H_7_' ,_V_U_M_B_E_'/_l _9 __ -;
CHART 9 THE CHALLENGE/THE GROWTH NUMBER
i
;i
i~--------------------------'---------------------------------------------~l
THE CHALLENGE/THE GROWTH NUMBER 327
CHALLENGE
The Challenge is an obstacle
encountered in the early years
of life, at least, due to the emphasis placed on the negative
extreme of the potential.
See Chapter 14, page 149.
o (Zero)
CHALLENGE
In the early years, the individual is likely to have
difficulty acting on his preferences. He is perfectly
capable of analyzing a situation, realistically comparing- possible solutions. Having sorted out alternatives, the individual has difficulty taking the
requisite action. He's likely to have all sorts of excuses or rationalizations, but he effectively hinders
his own development.
The individual must simply learn to have faith in
himself-having indicated a preference, he must
act. With a little practice, he's likely to find that
taking action on his preference will prove as beneficial as he had hoped. Eventually, given enough
practice, he can analyze, make a choice, then act
with ease and comfort.
1i
f
,~
f--+------------------I------------------------.. , :s
GROWTH NUMBER " . ,_, .• r' ,').
The Growth Number describes the energy which will
illuminate the essence of the
experiences and help expand a
person's development.
See Chapter 15, page 153.
GROWTH NUMBER
Not applicable
~j-----------------+------------------------,.,.
328 REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 9
CHART9
CHALLENGE/GROWTH NO.
1 INDIVIDUATION
INDEPENDENCE
ATTAINMENT
r- ~---------------------------------------------------
CHALLENGE
GROWTH NUMBER
In the early years, the individual is likely to feel dominated by
others with strong influence, probably parents or others on
whom he is dependent. He's apt to feel that his desires are not being met, that his needs are being opposed. To feel less restricted,
he may try to please everyone, but he'll find little satisfaction in
that endeavor. He'll probably end up displeased himself, as well
as confused and resentful.
The individual must learn to take stock of a situation (taking
others' needs into account as well as his own), then, using the
courage of his convictions, move forward in the direction of his
choice. He must be careful not to end up dominating others, but
he must remain watchful not to be dominated himself.
•• > . The indIvidual must act in an independent manner, but must not
confuse independence with dominance. He has to remember that
others' needs must be taken into account. He shouldn't give in to
restrictive or limiting forces tending to keep him dependent, particularly in the younger years.
The individual should express his original ideas in appropriate
circumstances. Shyness, fear of rejection or intimidation,
especially in youth and young adulthood may make the expression of these ideas difficult. Vital opportunities may be lost
because of the individual's reticence.
He should fill a leadership role when it is offered, although his
leadership style may not be in the expected or commonly accepted mode.
· ?! THE CHALLENGE/THE GROWTH NUMBER 329 ~"
i~ ===C=H=A=R=T={)========~----------~--.-~-~-b-i~I-~-OA-NT-I-O-N------------~--~~ICHALLENGE/GROWTH NO.f---_____________________ -----'------i~CHALLENGE
GROWTH NUMBER
In the early years, the individual is likely to be extremely sensitive-he's likely to be fearful, timid, lacking self-confidence,
brimming with feeling. It may be difficult for him to work with ..
others because he's so afraid of being hurt by an unkind word or
action or, worse yet, by being ignored. He's apt to be constantly
worried about others opinions of him.
He's using his sensitivity with negative emphasis. His positive
sensitivity can be an important strength, allowing him to be
acutely aware of so much of which others have little inkling, to
make significant connections between awarenesses which others
can barely fathom. He must learn that his extreme powers of
discrimination do not make him weak and inferior-but rather
strong and superior.
.- ,( • The indivfdual must promote harmony, even if the effort tends
to make his own contribution less visible. He shouldn't be so shy
ot self-effacing that his efforts go unnoticed. There's a very fine
balance here that, particularly in the younger years, may be difficult to achieve.
The individual should practice cooperation and adaptability. He
should try to take care of others' needs at the same time he is
meeting his own. He should try to be as sensitive as possible to
the subtle, even unspoken, nuances of those around him.
He should express friendship and affection openly and directly.
Fear of rejection may, especially at first, make this expression
difficult, but the acknowledgement of his feelings by others may
prove to be a vital link in his personal development.
~j~~'.i.
~--------------------------------------------------------------------------~~
330 REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 9
CHART9 3 i . EXPRESSION IJOY OF LIVING ~
CHALLENGE/GROWTH NO. ~ ~ ~--------------------------------------------------~~.
CHALLENGE
GROWTH NUMBER
In the early years, the individual is likely to be hiding his
creativity as well as his social abilities. He's apt to feel shy, have
difficulty expressing himself well, be fearful of criticism. He's
likely to find it- easier to hide in the background at social affairs~he may feel uncomfortable making conversation or being
himself. He probably does little to develop his potential gift
with words.
He's expressing himself with negative emphasis. The positive expression he can develop can be an important strength. He must
develop his capability to get on well with others-to be a good
conversationalist, to express his optimism and enthusiasm, to
grace any social affair. His creative abilities-possibly with
words; writing, singing, acting-can be developed to bring
pleasure to others as well as personal satisfaction.
The individual must approach his experiences with optimism and
enthusiasm. His input may vitalize an endeavor with productive
excitement.
He should express his creativity. Fear of rejection may make this
expression difficult, particularly when he's expressing in unique
or daring ways. He has to learn to offer his creative input and
-then let others learn to deal with it. He should express his delight
in people and social activities openly and warmly.
~
:1-
r---~--------~----------------------------------------------------------------~,
THE CHALLENGE/THE GROWTH NUMBER 331 ~~----------------------------------------------------------------------------~'CHALLENGE
4 LIMITATION
ORDER
SERVICE
In the early years, the individual is likely to have difficulty accomplishing his work effectively. He may dislike work, avoid it
if possible, or approach it in careless fashion, with little concentration or sense of practicality. Or he may approach work in a
rigid manner, working hard but with little awareness of the implications of the job at hand, possibly unable or unwilling to see
the forest for the trees.
He's expressing himself with negative emphasis. His positive
potential, his ability to work and produce can be an important
strength. He must develop his capacity to work hard and well, to
accomplish his tasks with patience, understanding, practicality,
to be aware of the details involved and to work within the
parameters of a given schedule.
GROWTH NUMBER
". ..,. ,> The individual must work within the limitations he finds, in a
positive manner. He must not succumb to frustration. He has to
be careful not to be trapped because of a plodding manner or a
narrow path. Learning to accept limitations is far different
than falling victim to limitations, but the difference may be
difficult to see at times. He must learn when the limitations can
be .changed rather than accepted.
He should try to be systematic and orderly, to organize with a
strong awareness of the practical. The individual should be of
service to others, though much hard work and patience may be
required. He should concentrate on the satisfaction of the service rather than the difficulty of the work.
~
~----------------------------------------------------~----~------------~~d
~
'j 332 REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 9 "1
I! ~================~------------------~-----------------
I CHART{} 5
r CONSTRUCTIVE FREEDOM
CHALLENGE/GROWTH NO.t--_____________________ ---c:
, CHALLENGE
:) In the early years, the individual is likely to have difficulty taking full advantage of his opportunities. He's apt to be restless,
impatient, impulsive, even erratic. He's likely to tire quickly of
one opportunity, move on to the next as soon as it appears. In
matters involving physical pleasures such as eating, sex, drink
or drugs, he may limit his potential with a poor sense of proportion or timing. His need for security is likely to be poorly fulfilled by continuing to cling to some situations long after the
promise has been developed.
He's using his freedom, his opportunities to expand, with
negative emphasis. He must learn to pick and choose among
these opportunities, develop the best of these in a responsible
manner, move on only after he's accomplished what he set out to
do. He must learn to curb his restlessness in the interest of
achieving the lasting satisfactions he needs.
I---+---------------------------------------~:
GROWTH NUMBER
.(- l- The individual must expand his opportunities with his versatility
and adaptability without running himself ragged and accomplishing little. He shouldn't jump erratically from exciting
experience to exciting experience-he should use these opportunities for excitement along with learning. He should use his
time and energy wisely-he shouldn't start unless he intends to
proceed, shouldn't stick to something after the experience is
completed, shouldn't jump to the new only because it's the
new.
The individual should explore physical pleasures-eating, sex'l
drinking, drugs-as part of a balanced life, not as ends in ,
themselves. ;
~
.~ -
~. '
ir! =====TH==E=C=H=A=L=L=E=N=G=E=IT=H=E==G=R~O_W_T_H_N_U_M __ B_ER _____________________________________ 33_3 _______ ~i CHART9 6 ~~~~~JiBILITY iI CHALLENGE/GROWTH NO. LOVE ,r ~--------------------
, ~i CHALLENGE ;GROWTH NUMBER
In the early years, the individual is likely to have difficulty
because of his insistence on his high standards. He's apt to appear authoritarian, intolerant, self-righteous. He's probably
unhappy because he feels that no one measures up to his superior
principles or shows any appreciation of his struggles to uplift
others.
He's using his potential for balancing affairs with negative emphasis. He must, instead, develop his potentially superior skill at
harmonizing situations. He must learn that his diplomatic approach will only be appreciated if others feel that their needs
are met, their desires understood, their points of view respected. He must learn to allow others to set their own pace,
make their own rules. He must learn to express his unconditionallove and acceptance.
rhe individual must help where help is needed. He should learn
to accept the responsibilities he finds and carry through with
understanding and poise. He should learn to adjust and balance
the forces he finds.
He should contribute his efforts to make his home a beautiful,
protected, stable and helping environment.
He must learn to give out friendship, affection and love and
gracefully accept others' friendship, affection and love in return.
:~ ~i
~~'.~
334 REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 9
'i ,
I CHART9 7 ANALYSIS 1,1
UNDERSTANDING
CHALLENGE/GROWTH NO. i --- ~------------------------------------------------~"
CHALLENGE
GROWTH NUMBER
I
" I
;
In the early years, the individual is likely to have difficulty
because of his discomfort with the situations he finds, situations
aggravated by his reserved attitude and unexpressed feelings.
He's likely to feel hopeless about bettering his situation, unable
to act to relieve-or change matters. He's probably a complainer,
often extremely critical, with little or nothing to offer in the way
of help.
He's using his potential for discrimination with negative emphasis. He must study to find the nature of wisdom. He must
learn to share his knowledge and sense of discrimination with
open feelings, to have faith in his abilities (rather than being
afraid to use them), to respond helpfully when difficulties arise.
He must le;lrn to approach others without reserve or aloofness.
The individual should retire into his very depths to find faith and
peace. Peace will come from within-it will have little to do with
money or material matters.
He must learn to trust his intuition to lead in directions of
growth. He must wait, when necessary, with patience. He
should learn the pleasure of spending time alone-studying,
meditating, searching for wisdom and hidden truths.
,,~
"
~
~
~
~ ~
~ ~~
~
~ ?~
,: ,-
,~:,~ ,;
,~~ ,1>I i ~ r~ "
~', :~ :~ ,:
THE CHALLENGE/THE GROWTH NUMBER 335
~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~i
CHART9 8 i!CHALLENGE/GROWTH NO. r--_______ M_A_T_E_R_IA_L_S_A_T_I_SF_A_C_T_IO_N ________ ~i
i
CHALLENGE
In the early years, the individual is likely to assume that satisfaction can only be gained and safeguarded by adequate material
accumulation. There's likely to be considerable effort exerted to
attain money, status and power, sometimes to the exclusion of
almost all else.
He's using his concern with material matters with negative emphasis. He must learn to use his ability to gain money, status
and power with a sense of proportion and an awareness of the
relation of material affairs to other matters. He must learn to
deal with the material world in a comfortable manner.
GROWTH NUMBER
The individual should aim for success with balance in the
- or. > material world. He should treat the achievement of money,
status and power as a means to the end of achieving understanding and pleasure. He should recognize that money, status
and power are only one means of achieving this end, but they
are significant means and should not be ignored.
The individual must learn how to accumulate money, how to
han'dle money, how to spend money. He should learn to avoid
the pressure of needing more money than is comfortably available.
:~
"
336 REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 9
CHART9 9 SELFLESSNESS
HUMANIT ARIANISM
CHALLENGE/GROWTH NO. -
CHALLENGE
" Not applicable
>
,:
,
"
GROWTH NUMBER JThe individual must learn to give of himself for the pleasure of > giving. He may give money, time, friendship, affection, love,
understanding or sympathy. He should give with little expect a- ;
tion of return or reward and should allow the needs of others to
tale precedence over his personal ambitions. This seemingly dif-
, ficult direction can produce the deepest of satisfactions. 'oi'
'J ,;,
::' ,;~ ~ l1 :r r~~~" ~~ I' i:
:;
;;
,f~ ~: II
'.",
~
:
"
"
I
~:~====================~------------------------------~-------------------------~,~-I THE CHALLENGE/THE GROWTH NUMBER 337
CHART9 11 ~I ILLUMINATION ~iCHALLENGE/GROWTH NO.f---________________________ ~1
1
-i
CHALLENGE
Not applicable
~~-;~~L'~H--------------------------------------------------------------------------------~
I
J
i
I
I
,
,
GROWTH NUMBER
... - .·r·, The individual must learn to develop his intuition to pick up added awarenesses of the spiritual (non-material) world. He should
visualize himself as a channel of special awareness.
He should spread his understandings with humility and inspire
others by his example, based on the purity of his learning of the
deepest spiritual truths. He should learn to communicate about
these spiritual matters in a world primarily interested in material
affairs, and should proceed despite the seeming discouragements.
-~.
•••
..
I
i
338 REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 9
i
CHART{) 22 ;CHALLENGE/GROWTH NO. MASTER BUILDER !~------------------------------------------------~\ ~--------------------~ ~
CHALLENGE
GROWTH NUMBER
Not applicable
The individual must learn to focus his high-level insights to
develop significant material projects. The power to achieve important goals may grow from his practical yet idealistic philosophy along with his sincere desire to benefit others .
f:
~ c' "2~ :~.
,~ ~" .·r" ,",.
j
'1 ~I ----------~-----
CHART 10 THE MATURITY NUMBER
I
340 REFERENCECHARTNUMBERIO
I
i
:
THE MATURITY NUMBER 341 ~r-----------------------------------------------------------------------------~See Chapter 16, page 157.
~~@~~~r_--------------------------------------------------------------------------;~~~MATURITY NUMBER WITH STRONG SIMILAR ENERGY
When the Maturity Number, a sub-lesson introduced at maturity, is the same as a core element, or when the Maturity
Number has the same modifier number as an Intensity Point or
Karmic Lesson, the Maturity Number describes the reevaluation of a lesson or sub-lesson on which the individual has
been working in the years prior to maturity.
~',~:~f; ~.l:1ii:~ <~r_--------------------------------------------------------------------------~
MATURITY NUMBER WITH NO STRONG SIMILAR ENERGY
""- •• ("")0.
When the Maturity Number is not the same as any core element
and has a modifier number that is not matched by an Intensity
Point or Karmic Lesson, the Maturity Number describes the introduction, at maturity, of a brand new sub-lesson along with
the characteristics associated with that number.
The new -sub-lesson is described in this chart.
THE ASSOCIATED CHARACTERISTICS ARE DESCRIBED
IN THE SECOND ROW FROM THE TOP ON CHART 2:
THE LIFE PATH. These characteristics are introduced at
maturity in considerably muted form.
:~
::'
,~
;~ ~l
c' r-~--------------------------------------------------------------------------~
KARMIC MATURITY NUMBER
When the· Maturity Number has a Karmic Debt behind
it-13/4, 14/5, 16/7 and 19/1-additional obstacles to learning
the lesson or sub-lesson are likely to be introduced at maturity.
The obstacles are added whether or not the Maturity Number
lias strong similar energy from the core or modifiers.
342 REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 10 1
CHART 10 1 INDIVIDUATION
INDEPENDENCE
MATURITY NUMBER ATTAINMENT
r--
MATURITY NUMBER WITH STRONG SIMILAR ENERGY
At maturity, there's likely to be a reevaluation of the meaning of independence in the subject's life. This mid-life appraisal is apt to focus on
whether the individual's ability to stand on his own two feet
• has been satisfactorily achieved or whether he still feels dependent, OR
• has been achieved by taking care of his own needs, causing a lack of
closeness with others, OR
• has been achieved by domination of others.
He'll also probably assess whether the independence he sought and, at least to
some extent, achieved has enabled him to move on to leadership roles along
with a sense of attainment of meaningful ends.
At this time in the life, the individual is likely to revise at least some attitudes
and actions in regard to independence, in order to achieve a more comfortable
relation with others.
MATURITY NUMBER WITH NO STRONG SIMILAR ENERGY
At maturity, a new sub-lesson is introduced: learning the meaning of independence. Since the 1 energy hasn't been a factor in the life up to this time,
it's likely that there have been few problems relating to independence. The in- .. dividual was probably satisfied or disinterested in his relation with others
relative to dependence/independence. At maturity, there's apt to be a shift in t~ the life, bringing problems of independence to center stage. This shift may be :due to one of the following:
• a financial arrangement which allowed him to be independent may end , or change, OR
• a spouse who supported him/her (financially or emotionally) may move 0 out of the life through separation or death, or may not be able to continue the support because of sickness or financial reversal, OR .'• an awareness of women's increased freedom (or children growing up)
may change a woman's view of herself as well as her role in relation to
her husband, OR '.
• a parent (or child) who previously led his/her own life may, because of
illness, death or financial reversal become dependent on him.
At this time in the life, the individual is likely to face some decisions about attitudes and actions in regard to dependence/independence in order to gain
more control of his own life.
..19/1 KARMIC MATURITY NUMBER ~ ~. ,
The subject is likely to find obstacles in his path due to: f~• his confusion of independence with self-centeredness, OR '1 • strong pressures keeping him from breaking out of a dependent situation ,in which he is involved. ,~i
.- .--
THE MATURITY NUMBER 343 ~r-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~i I i CHART 10 2 RELATION ~~i COOPERATION ~i MATURITY NUMBER ,f- 1-------------------------------------------------- ___ ---',fCi ~--------------------" ~~ii
1
1
MATURITY NUMBER WITH STRONG SIMILAR ENERGY
At maturity, there's likely to be a reevaluation of the satisfactions derived
from the subject's sensitivity. This mid-life appraisal is apt to focus on
• whether the individual has developed so that his strong sensitivity can
be comfortably -used, OR
• whether the individual has learned how to say and do what he needs
without feeling his sensitivity compromised, OR
• whether shyness or uncertainty block him from a full expression of his
sensitivity.
At this time in the life, the individual is likely to revise some attitudes and actions in order to better express his sensitivity and to better receive others'
friendship and affection as a reward for that expression.
MATURITY NUMBER WITH NO STRONG SIMILAR ENERGY
.. '- .. (. ,').
At maturity, a new sub-lesson is introduced: learning the satisfaction of using
sensitivity. Since the 2 energy hasn't been a factor in the life up to this time, it's
likely that there have been few problems relating to sensitivity. The individual
probably had little concern about his sensitivity or its expression. At maturity,
there's apt to be a shift in the life bringing problems of sensitivity to center
stage. This shift may be due to one of the following:
• sensitive treatment by others-family or close friends in particurar-may make individual aware of the beauty of sensitivity and
bring on a desire to develop personal sensitivity, OR
• insensitive treatment of individual by others (or of others by individual)
may cause significant pain and spark an appraisal leading to a desire to
better express sensitivity, OR
• difficulty in receiving any satisfying acknowledgement of sensitivity or
contributions based on this sensitivity may trigger a desire for more contentment here.
At this time in the life, the individual is likely to face some decisions about his
attitudes and actions in order to feel increased fulfillment in the expression
and acknowledgment of his sensitivity.
~~.~~'i r--+----------------------------------------------------------------------------~~
! I :?
i
I
KARMIC MATURITY NUMBER
Not applicable ~; ;
I
i
1 I 1 344 REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 10 ,
~I ~==C=H=A=RT=JL==()======~--------~---E-X-P-RE-S-S-IO-N------------------l
.
MATURITY NUMBER JOY OF LIVING !
- 1----------------------------.------,1 ~r------------~ ~
MATURITY NUMBER WITH STRONG SIMILAR ENERGY
At maturity, there's likely to be a reevaluation of how well the subject has
learned the joy of expression. This mid-life appraisal is apt to focus on
• whether the individual is comfortable giving of himself openly, warmly,
spontaneously,. OR
• whether the individual enjoys himself and is enjoyed by others at social
gatherings, OR
• whether the individual enjoys expressing himself artistically and
creatively.
At this time in the life, the individual is likely to revise at least some attitudes
and actions in order to express himself more fully and freely.
MATURITY NUMBER WITH NO STRONG SIMILAR ENERGY
,;
~ i
At maturity, a new sub-lesson is introduced: learning the joy of expression. :
Since the 3 energy hasn't been a factor in the life up to this time, it's likely that
the joy of self-expression has barely been approached. Shyness, too much sen- .
sitivity, heavy responsibilities may be some of the rationalizations used to explain the lack of development in this area. :i
At maturity, there's apt to be a shift in the life, bringing the awareness of the
lack of self-expression to center stage. This shift may be due to one of the
> -- following:
• the individual may become aware of how little he plays, how little fun
he has, how rarely he can act and enjoy as he did as a child, OR
• the individual may become aware of how delightful it can be to associate with others expressing optimism, enthusiasm and fun. Comparing
his own austere ways, he may seek to brighten his life, OR
• with time on his hands due to illness or loneliness, the individual may
turn to creative and artistic pursuits which previously frightened or
bored him.
At this time in the life, the individual is likely to face some decisions about his
attitudes and actions in regard to his own self-expression in order to receive
more satisfaction out of life. ,r--+-----------------.-----------------------------~ KARMIC MATURITY NUMBER
Not applicable
THE MATURITY NUMBER 345
'"j -
~! CHARTIO 4 LIMITATION ~i ORDER 13~;:i MATURITY NUMBER SERVICE ~f-
:j ~MATURITY NUMBER WITH STRONG SIMILAR ENERGY f' ~ "
At maturity, there's likely to be a reevaluation of the ability to live with the
law of limitation. (See CHART 2: LIFE PATH, under 4 Life Path Central Focus) '" q. This mid-life appraisal is apt to focus on ,• whether the individual has felt restricted and frustrated by the Iimita- ;'~ tions he's encountered, OR
• whether the individual has accepted the limitations he's encountered as
part of the fabric of his life, at least to some extent.
At this time in the life, the individual is likely to revise at least some attitudes
and actions in regard to restrictions. He may want to become more aware of
restrictions which are unknowingly self-imposed, restrictions which cannot
" be changed along with restrictions which can be removed or adjusted for the
better.
"
"
;{"
,:~
..
MATURITY NUMBER WITH NO STRONG SIMILAR ENERGY
At maturity, a new sub-lesson is introduced: learning to live with the law of
limitations. (See CHART 2: LIFE PATH, under 4 Life Path Central Focus) Since
the 4 energy hasn't been a factor in the life up to this time, it's likely that little
attention has been paid to restrictions. At maturity, there's apt to be a shift in
the life, bringing the awareness of limitations to center stage. This shift may
be due to one of the following: "
• a free and loose approach to life has met with poor results: a broken " marri~ge, alienated children, ruined business, lost friends, OR ,
.. ( .. ).
• a serious, responsible approach to life, with a consistent struggle to over- \
,
come the obstacles, has met with poor results: a broken marriage, ,\
alienated children, ruined business, lost friends. '.
At this time in the life, the individual is likely to face some decisions about attitudes and actions toward restrictions. An awareness of the law of limitation i:
and its practical applications may make an astonishing difference in the ap- d:
~ proach to many situations and give the subject the ability to better control his " \
own life. .t
'1
,.
:~.
';
~
0
: i~ j
13/4 KARMIC MATURITY NUMBER j
"
The subject is likely to find obstacles in his path due to: :...."':..
• his rigid~ obstinate or dogmatic ways, OR
• his lack of application to work. He may have more work to do than
others, but unless he proceeds with it, it becomes an obstacle, OR
• his inability to satisfactorily take care of the details. "
"
~:
r
I
i
I
"
-
:
"
I
::1
I
I
I
346 REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 10
CHARTIO 5 CONSTRUCTIVE FREEDOM
MATURITY NUMBER
MATURITY NUMBER WITH STRONG SIMILAR ENERGY
At maturity, there's likely to be a reevaluation of the subject's constructive use
of freedom, This mid-life appraisal is apt to focus on
• whether the individual has been exhilarated (or exhausted or frustrated)
by the variety, change, unexpected in the life, OR
• whether the individual has been able to focus his energies so that he's
been able to grow and develop by adapting to the changes which he so
often finds.
At this time in the life, the individual is likely to revise at least some attitudes f and actions in regard to the constructive use of freedom, so that he can make ! the best use of opportunities as they present themselves without being overwhelmed by them, ,,
~
"
MATURITY NUMBER WITH NO STRONG SIMILAR ENERGY
At maturity, a new sub-lesson is introduced: learning the exhilaration of the ,
constructive use of freedom, Since the 5 energy hasn't been a factor in the life
up to this time, it's likely that there has been little attention paid to the possibilities for growth and development presented by the variety of opportunities
opened to the individual. At maturity, there's apt to be a shift in the life,
bringing an awareness of freedom to center stage. This shift may be due to one
of the following:
• a breakup of one of the major stabilizing factors in the individual's
, life~end of marriage or business, move to another locale, death of
parent(s), children leaving home, OR
• generation of freedom by significant money from business, inheritance ;
or unexpected source, OR
• generation of freedom by abandonment of self-imposed heavy responsibilities such as high-level job pressures, OR
• developing awareness of discomfort of serious, responsible approach
previously regarded as only sensible avenue. ;
At this time in the life, the individual is likely to face some decisions about attitudes and actions in regard to freedom in order to give himself more control of
his own life as well as a sense of deeper satisfaction, .14/5 KARMIC MATURITY NUMBER
The subject is likely to find obstacles in his path due to: :
\
• his inability to profit from his experiences instead of repeating mistakes,
OR
• his excessive appetite for physical stim'ulation: eating, sensuality, liquor,
drugs. "
THE MATURITY NUMBER 347
~, ====================~-----------------------------------------------;&CHARTIO BALANCE C!:,~,:"6 RESPONSIBILITY ;~LOVE MATURITY NUMBER ~L-,-----------------1---------------------------------~1MATURITY NUMBER WITH STRONG SIMILAR ENERGY
At maturity; there's likely to be a reevaluation of the pleasure received in
handling responsibility and exchanging affection. This mid-life appraisal is
apt to focus on:
• whether responsibility has been handled to produce satisfaction for the
individual, OR
• whether friendship, affection and love have been given and received to
meet the individual's needs.
At this time in the life, the individual is likely to revise at least some attitudes
and actions in regard to responsibility and affection, in order to achieve more
satisfaction out of life.
MATURITY NUMBER WITH NO STRONG SIMILAR ENERGY
•• '- •• (. \')0.
At maturity, new sub-lessons are introduced: (1) learning the deep pleasure in
handling responsibility and (2) learning to give and receive friendship, affection and love. Since the 6 energy hasn't been a factor in the life up to this time,
it's likely that there have been few problems in relation to responsibility or affection. At maturity, there's apt to be a shift in the life, bringing problems of
responsibility or affection to center stage. This shift may be due to one of the
following:
, • econoJ!lic changes which may increase personal responsibilities, OR
• marriage, separation, divorce or illness which may increase personal responsibilities for children, OR
• change of circumstances which may require assistance with aging
parent(s).
Along with the change in responsibility, there's likely to be a desire for friendship, affection and love, a desire which may not have been particularly strong
in the years before maturity. At this time in the life, the individual is likely to
face some decisions about attitudes and actions in these areas in order to
achieve more satisfaction out of life.
:~ J
"
~ y~ '{
~
~
~ i
~ ,~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------$
KARMIC MATURITY NUMBER
Not applicable
~' 4----------------------------------------------;
i
348 REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 10
,'[
CHART 1 0 ~
7 '~
ANALYSIS !
LEADERSHIP
MATURITY NUMBER ;
~ - ---I
i ,
MATURITY NUMBER WITH STRONG SIMILAR ENERGY ~
~
At maturity, there's likely to be a reevaluation of the peace of mind that comes !.
:: with knowing oneself. This mid-life appraisal is apt to focus on whether the :
subject has used his fine mind and good intuition to study and contemplate the ,.
deeper truths, and whether he's found, in the process, a deepening peace and "
"
faith as a mainstay of his existence.
At this time in the iife, the individual is likely to revise at least some attitudes ;
,
and actions in order to more fully experience the possibilities of peace and ~
faith. ':
.'
~
"
, ".'
,'. ,
1MATURITY NUMBER WITH NO STRONG SIMILAR ENERGY :'
"
At maturity, a new sub-lesson is introduced: learning the peace of mind that , comes with knowing oneself. Since the 7 energy hasn't been a factor in the life
up to this time, there's probably been little attention paid to this introspective
aspect of the life. At maturity, there's apt to be a shift in the life, bringing a
new awareness of spiritual matters to center stage. This shift may be due to
one of the following: ~j
• the experience of another person (or group) who has achieved peace of .,"
mind may lead the individual to search in a similar direction, OR
> • a 'personal crisis of extraordinary magnitude may propel the individual
toward spiritual explorations which haven't previously been of any concern, OR
• an awareness of the emptiness or dissatisfactions of the life or a need for
more fulfillment may lead the individual to spiritual explorations. ,
.,
At this time in the life, the individual is likely to face some decisions about at- ~
titudes and actions in regard to his search for peace of mind and spiritual
fulfillment.
~
, .
..
16/7 KARMIC MATURITY NUMBER
:';
l
The subject is likely to find obstacles in his path due to: ~
• his apparent "differentness," making it difficult for others to approach, f
OR
• his outward actions, often not what others expect, which may be disconcerting or confusing to others, OR
• his strong introspective needs, possibly turning to or interpreted as selfcenteredness.
:
THE MATURITY NUMBER
CHARTIO
MATURITY NUMBER
349
8 MATERIAL SATISFACTION
MATURITY NUMBER WITH STRONG SIMILAR ENERGY
At maturity, there's likely to be a reevaluation of the satisfactions obtained
with the material freedom and power that has been achieved. This mid-life
appraisal is apt to focus on whether the current vocation (or the position in the
current vocation) meets the individual's needs for money, power and status.
For some individuals, maturity may involve a new relation to the material
world because of the growth of children, divorce, segaration or new feelings
about themselves and their earning power. Previous material satisfactions
may no longer be available because of a decreased income, or, additional
material satisfactions may become available due to their own business
acumen.
At this time in the life, the individuai is likely to revise at least some attitudes
and actions in regard to material freedom in order to achieve deeper satisfaction along with a better control of the life.
MATURITY NUMBER WITH NO STRONG SIMILAR ENERGY
'- .. (.
At maturity, a new sub-lesson is introduced: learning the satisfactions of the
material world, and the power which comes with its mastery. Since the 8
energy hasn't been a factor in the life up to this time, it's likely that the problems (and lessons) of the material world have been of little consequence. The
individual was probably well-provided for (possibly by others), or at least adequately provided for so that he had no need to struggle with material problems. At maturity, there's apt to be a shift in the life, bringing the problems of
the material world to center stage. This shift may be due to one of the follow-
> ing:
• reevaluation of the vocation, possibly in comparison to others' achievements in the same or similar vocations, OR
• desire to shift to a completely different vocation, possibly due to higher
money, status, power possible in the new vocation, or desire for satisfaction above prestige, OR
• awareness of approaching retirement and need to provide adequately,
OR
.,"
~~~~~8"'1 ~~g~,~ ;0:.
;
~.. .,",:
:,~.'
(l
~ t~}" ~\
.;
"
:-::
,
~. "
• economic changes which may affect financial responsibilities. ~ 3At this time in the life, the individual is likely to face some decisions about his 1 attitudes and actions in regard to the material world in order to achieve ~
deeper satisfaction. ~
~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~
~ I
~ KARMIC MATURITY NUMBER ~.
'i
Not applicable r" "i
350 REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 10
CHARTIO 9 SELFLESSNESS
HUMANIT ARIANISM
MATURITY NUMBER
1-
MATURITY NUMBER WITH STRONG SIMILAR ENERGY
At maturity, there's likely to be a reevaluation of the beauty of giving of
oneself for the deep satisfaction of giving, without thought of reward or
return. This mid-life appraisal is apt to focus on:
• whether the individual has indeed found beauty in giving selflessly, OR
• whether the -individual has even been able to approach giving selflessly,
or has only operated on this high level sporadically.
At this time in the life, the individual is likely to revise at least some attitudes
and actions in regard to selfless giving in order to achieve deeper satisfactions.
He may prefer to give up on this lesson altogether because of its difficulty and
its seeming lack of satisfaction. The numerologist can only indicate the potential satisfaction. The individual travels his own path.
:
MATURITY NUMBER WITH NO STRONG SIMILAR ENERGY
At maturity, a new (and difficult) sub-lesson is introduced: learning the beauty of giving of oneself solely for the deep satisfaction of giving, without
thought of reward or return. Since the 9 energy hasn't been a factor in the life
up to this time, it's likely that little attention has been paid to this high-level
lesson. At maturity, there's apt to be a shift in the life, bringing a new
awareness of selfless giving to center stage. -This shift may be due to one of the
following:
• a-new spiritual awareness, OR > -,
• the realization that selfishness and the resultant lack of giving has not -,
given the individual a sense of satisfaction, OR :
• an experience of selfless giving by the individual (or to the individual)
that brings deep satisfaction, OR c,
; • an experience with a humanitarian person or group which opens the t.
eyes to a perception of the satisfaction. :.
At this time in the life, the individual is likely to face some decisions about atti- ." tudes and actions in regard to selfless giving in order to feel a sense of deeper ,satisfaction. :>
:;
'~
;
:~
KARMIC MATURITY NUMBER ~. k_
Not applicable ;;
,
,-
THE MATURITY NUMBER 351
CHARTIO
MATURITY NUMBER
11 ILLUMINATION
MATURITY NUMBER WITH STRONG SIMILAR ENERGY
At maturity, there's likely to be a reevaluation of the importance of learning
an awareness of the spiritual world and the relation of that world to the
material world. This mid-life appraisal is apt to focus on:
• whether the spiritual world has even been approached, OR
• whether the awareness of the spiritual world has proved a positive influence, OR
• whether the awareness of the relation between the material and
spiritual world has proved a positive influence.
At this time in the life, the individual is likely to revise at least some attitudes
and actions in order to achieve deeper satisfa:ctions. He may prefer to give up
on this lesson altogether because of its difficulty and its seeming lack of satisfaction. The numerologist can only indicate the potential satisfaction. The individual travels his own path.
MATURITY NUMBER WITH NO STRONG SIMILAR ENERGY
'- .. ('.).
At maturity, a new (and difficult) sub-lesson is introduced: learning the glory
of the awareness of the spiritual world and the relation of that world to the
material world. Since the tl energy hasn't been a factor in the life up to this
time, it's likely that little attention has been paid to this high level lesson. At
maturity, there's apt to be a shift in the life, bringing a new awareness of the
relation of the spiritual and material worlds to center stage. This shift may be
due to one of the following:
,. an enlightening experience that allows him to glimpse the beauty of the
spiritual world, OR
• an experience in the material world that provides the realization that
other forces may be necessary for ultimate satisfaction.
At this time in the life, the individual is likely to face some decisions about attitudes and actions in regard to his awareness of the spiritual/material worlds
in order to feel a sense of deeper satisfaction. This difficult new sub-lesson may
not be approached at all. The individual may prefer to ignore this sub-lesson
and. concentrate on the alternative 2 sub-lesson.
----1;~/
~ ~ [f
~
~
~~
~ ;
~
~ i ~ iHr--------------------------------------------------------~~
KARMIC MATURITY NUMBER ~
Not applicable . i
4~
~i .;:
!
352 REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 10
:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------~,
CHART 1 0 22
MASTER BUILDER . ~ MATURITY NUMBER ~ ---- r-----------------------------------------------------~
~------------------~ ~
r.
MATURITY NUMBER WITH STRONG SIMILAR ENERGY
At maturity, there's likely to be a reevaluation of the importance of the
mastery achieved by combining the highest ideals with the power to achieve
significant material goals. This mid-life appraisal is apt to focus on:
• whether this high-level lesson has even been approached, OR
• whether this high-level lesson seems at all attainable, OR
• whether the approach to date has been productive of at least some of its
goals.
At this time in the life, the individual is likely to revise at least some attitudes
and actions iiI order to achieve deeper satisfactions. He may prefer to give up
on this lesson altogether because of its difficulty and its seeming lack of satisfaction. The numerologist can only indicate the potential satisfaction. The individual travels his own path.
<
~
," ----j----------------------------------":'
MATURITY NUMBER WITH NO STRONG SIMILAR ENERGY
At maturity, a new (and difficult) sub-lesson is introduced: learning the
mastery to be achieved by combining the highest ideals with the power to
achieve significant material goals. Since the 22 energy hasn't been a factor in
the life up to this time, it's likely that little attention has been paid to this highlevel lesson. At maturity, there's a shift in the life, bringing a new awareness
of the potential use of this power to center stage. This shift may be due to one
of the following:
• substantial mastery of the core energies prior to maturity may spark the
feeling that even more may be achieved, OR
• a desire to benefit mankind may produce the need to explore the outer
limits of personal powers.
At this time in the life, the individual is likely to face some decisions about attitudes and actions in regard to his potential powers in order to feel a sense of
deeper satisfaction. This difficult new sub-lesson may not be approached at
all. The individual may prefer to ignore this sub-lesson and concentrate on the
. alternative 4 sub-lesson.
I-----+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------c
KARMIC MATURITY NUMBER
Not applicable
;~
.:
.,
~ ,'~
..
~
354 Il E FEll ENe E C II All T N U M BEll 1 I
CHART 11 THE FIRST LETTER
THE FIRST LETTER
The First Letter (this chart) and the First Vowel (Chart No. 12)
describe the natural or innate approach, the method of response
and reaction to experience.
See Chapter 20, page 185.
'- .-(. ,)0.
355
,~~:~3",,~~~~~~~~",t~.~,~~}}:~.,
ij;~ ~
f'.:!
~ :~: .<
"
:;
.<
f['
356 REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 11
,
CHARTll I 1 INDIVIDUATION j~
INDEPENDENCE
ATTAINMENT
THE FIRST LETTER .,
,.
, -- ~
A DYNAMIC LEADER .'
S~NSITIVE LEADER r-~
First . ~
.:
letter: 1
See Chart No. 12: The First Vowel.
:
..
,
"
!,
f!
..
, ..
J INDECISIVE LEADER
t
Tenth I
Letter:
10: 1 • Leader.
• Ambitious, usually in a quiet way.
• Assertive at times, only occasionally aggressive.
• Optimistic, recovers well from difficulties.
• Good mind.
• Excellent ideas.
• Original or innovative approach.
• Broad perspective may make it difficult to get started. Once started, leader- '; > ship is likely to come to the fore, but progress may be plagued by indecision.
S EMOTIONAL LEADER
Nineteenth
letter:
19: 1 • Leader.
• Very creative. Dramatic flashes of insight. :
• Ambitious. Concerned with impressions made by achievements.
• Independent. Courageous. ,
• Expresses individuality, often dramatically.
• Very emotional. Clear thinking may be affected by the depth of feelings.
• Erratic course of action with the possibility of setbacks because of difficulty in
analyzing clearly.
:
LETTER COMPARISON
A: Most dynamic of I's. Only self-starter.
J: . Most cautious, prudent of I's.
S: Most emotional of 1 's.
'.
. ..
~ THE FIRST LETTER 35i ~ ~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------R CHARTll 2 RELATION
COOPERATION THE FIRST LETTER
!
i B SENSITIVE HELPER
Second • Shy and retiring. Self-contained. Often indecisive.
letter: 2 • Usually more comfortable in subservient role. Prefers being a follower rather
than a leader. Works better with others than alone. Very cooperative.
• Fosters and helps develop harmony in groups in which he's involved.
, • Good at taking care of all the details.
• May, at times, be critical of self and others.
• Extremely sensitive and emotional. May be hurt by others' lack of sensitivity.
• Needs affection. Seeks it in own quiet way. I
i • May have difficulty working with others in a hurry or those who want to cut
I
corners.
I
I K INTUITIVE INSPIRER I
Eleventh
letter: 1112
See 11 page of this chart.
'- ,.(' .,.
T EMOTIONAL HELPER
Twentieth • Usually more comfortable in subservient role. Prefers being a follower rather letter:
20: 2 than a leader.
• Expects much from others, but is usually patient in helping others develop to
expectations.
• Generally works well with others, although likely to become anxious when
problems develop. May, at times, be critical of self and others.
• Seeks higher level enlightenment.
• Extremely emotional and high strung.
• Enjoys closeness of marriage, family.
• Often self-sacrificing.
LETTER COMPARISON
B: Strong emotions usually felt and expressed. Less high level awarenesses than
K or T.
K: Extreme high level awareness (operates primarily as 11 rather than as 2).
T: Extremely emotional and high-strung. Some high level awareness.
~ "
~ ~ ~ ~ :~
~ ~ ~
~ lJ
'"
i
~!
:
:
,
:
I
,
•
)
,
"
;'.
,
:\
~:
..
..
"
~
)
"
c
:
'
358 REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 11
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------? ~
CHART 11 3 fJnlji'i\~~NG ITHE FIRST LETTER ~ \----~------------------------~~----------------------------------------------------------~~
c
Third
letter: 3
SPONTANEOUS CREATOR
• Spontaneity of creative inspiration.
• Very verbal. Often much originality with words and ideas.
• Sensitive. Sometimes easily hurt.
• Friendly and sociable. Enjoys social activities, the lighter side of life.
• Expresses joy of living with exhilaration.
• Psychic, though often latent.
ii
f1
~
.,
';
g" " ,.
-----j------------------------------------------------------c<
L
Twelfth
letter:
12: 3
REASONING CREATOR
• Creative abilities express slowly, surely, in a measured manner.
• Verbal. Often much originality with words and ideas.
• Sensitive.
• Friendly and sociable. Enjoys social activities, the lighter side of life.
• Expresses joy of living.
• Fine reasoning ability and powers of analysis.
, ,'.~--~----------------------------------------------------------------~~u SENSITIVE RECEPTOR
CONSTRUCTIVE RECEPTOR
Twenty-first
letter
21: 3 See Chart No. 12: The First Vowel.
LETTER COMPARISON
C: Most spontaneous and open of 3's.
L: Most mental of 3's.
U: Most receptive and self-protective of 3's.
.
~~I :! THE FI RST LETTER 359 ;:"f-I ----------------------------------------------gCHARTll 4 LIMITATION
ORDER
SERVICE
THE FIRST LETTER
! D STEADY BUILDER
,
i Fourth
1 letter: 4 • Hard worker. Self-disciplined.
• Serious. Steady. Thorough.
• Conservative, sometimes narrow approach. Rigid attitudes may cause
(
problems.
i • Tends to show little emotion.
• Self-contained. Operates well with little deep contact with others.
• Follows instructions precisely and completely.
• Extremely well-developed approach to material, practical affairs.
• Does mundane work efficiently.
• Works steadily, efficiently to complete a project.
M CONTROLLED BUILDER
Thirteenth
letter: • Hard worker. Self-disciplined. 13: 4
• Serious. Steady. Thorough.
• Controlled approach. Often limited viewpoint. Usually accepts the given
limits instead of expanding the potential.
• Repressed feelings may make him difficult to deal with and hard" to get to
know.
• May be relatively inarticulate, have difficulty explaining his approach.
" "- "(' -)- Organization-al ability.
• Well-developed approach to material, practical affairs.
• Does mundane work efficiently.
• Works steadily , efficiently to complete a project.
V INSPIRATIONAL MASTER
Twentysecond See 22 page of this chart.
letter: 2214
LETTER COMPARISON
D: Better balanced than M.
M: More repressed, more inarticulate than D.
V: Building abilities of D,M raised to highest level with spiritual revelation
(operates primarily as 22 rather than as 4).
!
,.
:"
.j
~
"
~
;',
;,~
'} ".
J
;~
"i
;
~ ,t
1
f
i~ !l
;i.
if
:
~:
:
""
,
"-
,
.
R~~~~~<~~1.IiJ-~~~~,{.;~*
r
i
I
: ..
360 REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 11
CHARTll 5 CONSTRUCTIVE FREEDOM
THE FIRST LETTER
E APVENTUROUSENCOUNTERER
RESTLESS ENCOUNTERER
Fifth
letter: 5
See Chart No. 12: The First Vowel.
N MENTAL ENCOUNTERER
Fourteenth
letter:
14: 5 • Adventurous.
• Restless. Need for change, excitement, variety.
• Adaptable.
• Imaginative.
• Seeks and enjoys confronting any and all experience.
• Generally uses strong mental approach. Good at analysis.
• Personal philosophy, based on rational approach to experience, is usually
changing constantly.
• Works extremely well with people. Knows how to use others to carry through
ideas. .
• Restlessness shows in making decisions-often vacillates between several
points of view.
w LIMITING ENCOUNTERER
Twentythird letter:
23: 5
This chart describes W as consonant.
See Chart No. 12: The First Vowel for W as a vowel.
• Adventurous. Restless. Need for change, excitement, variety.
• Excellent verbal abilities. Good at selling.
• Tends to accept the given limits instead of expanding the potential.
• Seeks and enjoys confronting any and all experience.
• Often wants to express, but expression is usually limited because of more desire
to experience than express.
• Works extremely well with people. Others help carry through ideas.
• Restlessness shows in making decisions-often vacillates between several
points of view.
n1W~--r-----------------------------~----------------------------------------------~"LETTER COMPARISON
E: Most capable of inspiration and accomplishment of 5's.
N: Most rational of 5's.
W: Most inexpressive, most limited aim of 5's.
THE FIRST LETTER 'if----------------___________________________ _
'11----------------,
361
;~CHARTll 6 BALANCE
RESPONSIBILITY
LOVE
THE FIRST LETTER
F
Sixth
letter: 6
STRUGGLING HARMONIZER
• Accepts much responsibility-his own and others. Responsibility
related to home and family. Responsibility weighs heavily.
• Can protect and care for others.
• Innate desire to right wrongs.
• Attracts situations requiring much in the way of adjustment.
• Capable of much sacrifice.
• Emotional. May withdraw when upset.
• Sensitive and receptive.
is often
• Gives affection easily. Responds to affection. Is hurt by lack of affection.
[~,e~~~~,<:1,\~(~"~ZJ:~j~;':!.~, ~:r~~~~);t~-----------------------------------------------------------~o POISED HARMONIZER
PROTECTED HARMONIZER
Fifteenth
letter:
15: 6 See Chart No. 12: The First Vowel.
x EMOTIONAL HA&MONIZER
Twentyfourth letter:
24: 6
.,. '- .. (. ).
• Accepts much responsibility-his own and others'. Responsibility is often
related to home and family. Responsibility weighs heavily.
• Can protect and care for others.
• Capable of much sacrifice, but suffers from pressures created by sacrifice.
• Extremely emotional. Must learn how to deal with his and others' feelings
without being overwhelmed.
• Life often full of crises, emotional upheavals.
• Sometimes wallows in self-pity.
·r:{ ;r:
~ g ~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------~,~
LETTER COMPARISON
F: Because of responsibilities, subject's life likely to be struggle.
0: Handles responsibilities well; usually expresses little feeling.
X: Because of responsibilities, subject likdy,~o feel much emotion.
H--------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ ..
,~
.. "--
362 REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 11
CHARTll
THE FIRST LETTER
7 ANALYSIS
UNDERSTANDING
G
Seventh
letter: 7
RESERVED THINKER
• Reserved, introspective. Manner causes misunderstanding.
• Secretive.
• May get lost in dreams. Needs firmer grounding in and understanding of
reality.
• Works best alone. Often lonely.
• Doesn't respond readily to affection. Gives little affection.
• Often anxious and lacking confidence.
• Much willpower. Keen mind. Given to thought and meditation.
, • Enjoys analysis of fundamentals, philosophical speculation.
~--0---------------------------------------~--------------------------------------------~1 ~
p INEXPRESSIVE THINKER ~
Sixteenth
letter:
16: 7
• Reserved, introspective. Manner causes misunderstandings.
• Secretive.
• Works best alone. Often lonely.
• Feels deeply, but not always sure of or comfortable with his feelings. Expresses and shares little of his thoughts and feelings.
• Keen mind. Given to thought and meditation.
• Enjoys analysis of fundamentals, philosophical speculation.
• Usually lacks determination and willpower.
r---+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------'
y UNCERTAIN THINKER
Twentyfifth letter:
25: 7
This chart describes Y as a consonant.
See Chart No. 12: The First Vowel for Y as a vowel.
• Reserved, introspective. Manner causes misunderstandings.
• Secretive.
• Works best alone. Often lonely. Often uncertain and vacillating.
• Feels deeply. Expresses and shares little of these feelings.
• Extremely keen mind. Given to thought and meditation.
• Enjoys analysis of fundamentals, philosophical speculation.
• Extremely perceptive. Fine intuition.
• Deep insights into higher matters.
• Strong psychic power. Must learn to trust it.
LETTER COMPARISON
G: Most willpower of the Ts.
P: Least willpower, least expressiveness of the Ts.
Y: Most insightful, most vacillating of the Ts.
THE FIRST LETTER
-Ir-
~==========~----------------------------~,..~363
CHARTII 8 MATERIAL SATISFACTION
co,::;L-__________________________________________________________________ ~~, i~THE FIRST LETTER
'---,------------------------------' ~.H A WARE ACHIEVER
Eighth
letter: 8 • High level consciousness helps bring extreme awareness of the material world.
• Executive and leadership ability.
• Works well with others.
• Operates well in material world with strong mental capability. Uses good
mind to achieve material success-money, power, status.
• Keen perceptions of people, events.
• Strong desire for advance may be blunted by changing ideas.
Q NON-CONFORMIST ACHIEVER
Seventeenth
letter:
17: 8
• Large potential power, not always used in a balanced productive manner.
• Inputs dramatic energy levels into projects with which he associates.
• Capable of superior material achievement-money, power, status-if he can
proceed without being self-centered or greedy.
• Superior leadership ability. Good at directing efforts to achiev.e desired ends.
• Often espouses an independent, unusual (sometimes eccentric) position, no
. matter what opposition is created.
'- .·r-.,.
~~." ~~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ .. ,
.'~ .z INSPIRATIONAL ACHIEVER
Twentysixth letter:
26: 8 • Extremely dynamic energy.
• Self-confidence and will-power.
• Capable of leadership and attendant material achievements-money, power,
status. Greed or lack of responsibility may hamper his achievements.
• Capable of inspiring others.
• Deep awareness of emotions-his own and others.
• Can work through emotional crises with understanding.
• Suffers through his own deep feelings and awarenesses.
"
i
~: -!.;.
,,- ~~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~l
LETTER COMPARISON
H: Best balanced of 8's.
Q: !\;lost unusual approach of 8's.
Z: Most inspired of 8's.
,{~
364 REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 11
1
CHARTll 9 SELFLESSNESS I
I HUMANIT ARIANISM
THE FIRST LETTER -
I EMOTIONAL HUMANITARIAN
RESTRAINED HUMANITARIAN Ninth letter: 9 See Chart No. 12: The First Vowel.
R SELFLESS HUMANITARIAN
Eighteenth
letter: • Humanitarian. Selfless. 18: 9
• Great understanding and tolerance. Strong potential to help others. May be
taken advantage of by others.
• Significant power potential.
• Idealistic. Sometimes led in impractical directions by idealistic views.
• Much emotion. Often, considerable emotional upset.
• Self-starter.
• Inspirational approach. "
"
"
>
i
:.
i
"
'-
,~ i
I
,
,
LETTER COMPARISON
I: More high-strung than R.
R~ More selfless than I.
I -- ---_. --
THE FIRST LETTER 365
, CHARTl 1 1 1 ILLUMINATION THE FIRST LETTER j.. ~::%0r" i.~~:'.'~~~:~~3~,~i~K INTUITIVE INSPIRER 1~.~~Eleventh :Jletter: 1112 • High potential for achievement. ~r.;
• High nervous tension. ~'~ :1
• Very open to spiritual awareness. .l
• Can inspire others. :.;
"~I Receptive to others' feelings. ~ • ~~\ • Helpful. Promotes harmony. Good at detail work: 1:~
• Appreciates affection. Expresses much affection. '. • Much intuitive awareness on the highest level. Can translate these awarenesses ~
so that others can use the understanding. ',<
,,!-
~
• Very creative. ~
• Power to at:hieve desired ends. Best results develop when care is taken not to "
, .. .. ( .. ).
dominate others. ~
• Charisma aids in use of power. ~;
~ ~.
:.:!
,
,
i ,t
I
,'"
~
.~
2:
~ .;~
q
~
. ~
~ :r~
~ 'Jf
~
~
~
~
~
}
I
~
I ~
366 REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 11
 , ;
 CHART I I ~
22 ~
MASTER BUILDER ,
THE FIRST LETTER i
, I-- cr,
~ ,-
,: "
,
~
g
~;
:',
~ j
~
:\
,
~
" i
~
"
:~
A~ "
-,
-'
-,
;i
~:
.-
.'
.:~
> "
V INSPIRATIONAL MASTER -,
Twenty- -'
" second • Inspired leader. .":"letter: 2214 ...."• Extremely receptive to spiritual revelation. ~-'
• Builder, on the highest level. .~ • Can envision ideas, convert ideas into practical form, organize people and
resources, inspire confidence and loyalty.
• Can convert spiritual awareness to material form. :• High nervous tension. ,• Hard worker. Self-disciplined. .-
• Serious. Steady. Thorough. ~~.• Practical. ::• Intuitive awareness is potential strong source of power. :I
I
-'
:: .. '
I
 \~ ______ 3_6_8 __________________________________________________ R_E_I'_E_Il_E_·N_C_E_·_C_H_A_I_IT __ N_U_M_B_E_·R __ I~_' ____ ~
CHART 12 THE FIRST VOWEL
i
l .-

THE FIRST VOWEL 369
~~~~\----.----------------------------------------------<,,1The First Vowel (this chart) and the First Letter (Chart No. 11)
describe the natural or innate approach, the method of
response and reaction to experience.
See Chapter 20, page 185.
'- .. ( ....
~~~~"~~i'~~~~;.':;~:{,~o·
-
370 REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 12
CHART 1 2 1 INDIVIDUATION
INDEPENDENCE
ATTAINMENT
THE FIRST VOWEL
A
First
letter: 1
A
First
letter: 1
DYNAMIC LEADER
LONG VOWEL as in Amy, Dale, Jane
• Leader. Ambitious. Adventurous. Progressive.
• Assertive, at the very least; often aggressive. Independent. Self-reliant.
• Strong willpower and strong opinions. Accepts advice readily only if it's in
same vein as own ideas.
• Expresses individuality strongly.
• Great deal of energy. Good mind. Creative mental approach.
• Excellent ideas. Interested in new ideas but usually prefers to use own ideas.
• Original or innovative approach. Will defend his approach no matter how
much opposition he faces.
• Pushes ahead with pioneering spirit. Loves to forge ahead in unknown territory.
• Interest may lag after the start. May have difficulty completing projects.
SENSITIVE LEADER
SHORT VOWEL as Arlene, Matthew, Pamela
• Leader, but doesn't always care to exert power.
• Moderately adventurous. Progressive. Sometimes assertive.
• With practice, develops independence, self-reliance.
• Has own ideas, but willing to listen to others' ideas and incorporate all.
• Individuality is expressed in a subdued manner.
• Good mind. Creative mental approach. Excellent ideas.
• Original or innovative approach. Will explain his approach and is willing to
struggle with the opposition, but too much opposition may wear him down.
• Pushes ahead with measured forward spirit. Enjoys moving cautiously into
}- unknown territory.
.~-+------------------------~--------------------------------------------------------------
IA
First
letter: 1
SENSITIVE LEADER
COMBINED VOWEL as in Haydn, Joan, Laura
• Leader.
• Some ambitions.
• Moderate independence, self-reliance.
• Individuality expressed in a subdued manner.
• Good mind. Creative mental approach. Excellent ideas.
• Original or innovative approach.
:,.~~
THE FIRST VOWEL
CHART12
THE FIRST VOWEL
LONG VOWEL
Not applicable
2 RELATION
COOPERATION
371
,~ .~
~ ~ rr-l-----------------------------------------')Ji J~ ,)!
~!
SHORT VOWEL
Not applicable
- .• r" I).
11
I
ii, ~ ~
r,J,,::n-----------'----------------J~; ~.' i: COMBINED VOWEL ~." 'I :~
'I
Not applicable
:~
3i2
CHART 1 2
THE FIRST VOWEL 3
REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 12
EXPRESSION
JOY OF LIVING
I
I; it
i ~
~, --- r----------------------------------------------------------------~"
~------------------------~
u
Twentyfirst letter:
21 : 3
u
Twentyfirst letter:
21: 3
SENSITIVE RECEPTOR
LONG VOWEL as in Hugh, Julian, Lucy
• Artistic, creative with measured approach. Although the creativity potential
can be seen, there is often very little expressed.
• Usually good with words.
• Sensitive. Aware of o.thers' feelings.
• Strong emotions.
• Friendly and sociable. Enjoys social activities, the lighter side of life.
• Idealistic, but rarely attains idealistic ends.
• Conservative approach. Rarely seeks initiative.
• Extremely intuitive.
• Indecisive approach.
• May scatter energies.
CONSERVATIVE RECEPTOR
SHORT VOWEL as in Burt, Gus, Russell
• Artistic, creative potential. If expressed at all, expressed in slow, very conservative approach.
• Capable of good communication, but often prefers not to express thoughts.
• Sensitive. Aware of others' feelings.
• Strong emotions, sometimes not expressed.
• Idealistic desires, rarely communicated or developed.
• Extremely conservative approach. Prefers not to take initiative.
• Intuitive .
. ( .•• "Indecisive approach.
• May scatter energies.
r-~--------------------------~--------------------------------------------------------------~.,
u
Twentyfirst letter:
21: 3
CONSERV ATIY,E RECEPTOR
COMBINED VOWEL as in Audrey, Eugene, Guy
• Artistic, creative potential, often latent.
• Either inexpressive or over-talkative. Either way, communicates little of deep
thoughts.
• Sensitive.
• Deep feelings.
• Idealistic.
• Extremely conservative.
• Intuitive.
• Indecisive approach.
• May scatter energies.
1
l THE FIRST VOWEL 373
"
CHART12 4 LIMITATION tORDER f
I THE FIRST VOWEL . SERVICE ~ ~ ~------------------------------------------------------, L,--------------------~ ~
LONG VOWEL
Not applicable
i
':oj. I"
?~
~; .,
d
~. )t
~
"
~: ;{
~~------------------------------------------------------------~
\
SHORT VOWEL
Not applicable
'- .. (-.).
~ ~-+------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ ~.-- ", COMBINED VOWEL
~:. Not applicable
374 REFERENCE CHAR T NUMBER 12
CHART 1 2 5 CONSTRUCTIVE FREEDOM
~ THE FIRST VOWEL
E ADVENTUROUSENCOUNTERER
LONG VOWEL as in Delia, Gene, Leroy
Fifth • Adventurous. Often turns life situations into adventures.
letter: 5 • Restless. Need for change, excitement, variety.
• Impulsive. Aggressive.
• Adaptable. Versatile.'
• Needs freedom in order to develop.
• Often difficulties with marriage because of need for change, excitement. Marriage, on occasion, can provide stabilizing influence.
• Much energy.
• Much mental activity. Much stimulation.
• Keep perceptions and judgements of people, motivations, events.
• Helpful. Practical.
• Much is started, often abandoned or set aside for later time.
E RESTLESS ENCOUNTERER
SHORT VOWEL as in Bernard, Emily, Kelley
Fifth • Enjoys adventure. Prefers freedom in order to develop~
letter: 5 • Somewhat restless. Likes change, excitement, variety.
• Adaptable. Versatile. Helpful. Practical.
• Marriage needs much work, spouse with considerable underStanding in order
to succeed.
• . A good deal of energy, but often less energy than necessary to carry out the
stimulating demands of his life.
• Mental activity. Good perceptions and judgements.
• A good deal is started, sometimes abandoned or set aside for later time, or
given to others to continue and complete. >
E RESTLESS ENCOUNTERER ,
:
COMBINED VOWEL as in Beulah, Jeanne, Reid
'Fifth • Adventurous.
letter: 5 • Adaptable. Versatile.
• Mental activity.
• A good deal is started, but continuity may be lacking, sometimes causing
discord.
W VACILLATING ENERGIZER
Can only be COMBINED VOWEL and follow another letter as in Howard, Seward
Twenty- • Restless.
third letter: • Strong energy can be used in positive or riegativedirection, particularly in
23: 5 material affairs. With great effort, energy can be used for superior achievement; with milch less effort, energy can be used to promote negative ends:
-If core stresses egotism, domination, self-centeredness, (1,4,8 particularly),
W energy tends to emphasize these negative traits.
-If core stresses awareness or helpfulness to others (2,6,7,9,11), Wenergy
tends to emphasize these positive traits.
-If core stresses freedom (5 particularly), W energy stresses freedom. Rest of
core and free will determine whether direction is positive or negative.
• Often vacillates between several different points of view.
I - - -,
i----
i
,-
THE FIRST VOWEL 3i5
CHART12
THE FIRST VOWEL 6 BALANCE
RESPONSIBILITY
LOVE
o
Fifteenth
letter:
15: 6
POISED HARMONIZER
LONG VOWEL as in Hope, Joseph, Rose
• Takes on many responsibilities-often more than he can comfortably handle.
Because he is so responsible, he may well be used by others.
• Views role in life as giving service to others: family, friends, close community.
• Attracts situations requiring much in the way of adjustment.
• Concentrates well.
• Conservative traits. Gives out little openly. Often content to follow traditional
modes. Prefers a settled life with minimum change.
• Innately knows how to protect self from life·s storms. Self-contained.
Secretive.
• Deep emotions, but controlled so often not visible.
• Creative, artistic. Enjoys beautiful domestic surroundings.
",i
{ "
~
~
:~ f-------------------------------------------,-----.,
o
Fifteenth
letter:
15: 6
PROTECTED HARMONIZER
SHORT VOWEL as in Dorothy, Josh, Oliver
• Responsible.
• Gives service to others; family, friends, close community.
• Attracts situations requiring much in the way of adjustment.
• Sometimes, can create balance; at other times, contributes to imbalance.
• Conservative. Traditional.
• Extremely protected. Extremely self-contained. Secretive.
• Extremely emotional, but only some of the feelings are displayed .
... , __ .r· .').
r
~.
~ f-----------------------------------------------~
o
Fifteenth
letter:
15: 6
I.'
~ PROTECTED HARMONIZER
COMBINED VOWEL as in Boyd, Howard, Louis
• Responsible.
• Gives service.
• Attracts situations requiring much in the way of adjustment.
• Conservative. Traditional.
• Protected. Self-contained.
• Emotional. Some feelings displayed.
(
~~ ______ 3_76 ___________________________________________________ R __ E_F_E_R_E_N_C_E __ C_H_A __ R_T_N __ U_M_B_E_R __ 12 ______ ~
CHART 1 2 7 ANALYSIS
UNDERSTANDING
THE FIRST VOWEL -
Y UNCERTAIN THINKER
LONG VOWEL as in Myron, Ryan
Twenty- • Reserved, introspective. Very secretive.
fifth letter: • Works best alone. Often feels isolated.
25: 7
• Feels deeply. Expresses and shares little of these feelings.
• Often not understood by others.
• Extremely keen mind. Given to thought and meditation.
• Enjoys analysis of fundamentals, pursuit of wisdom, philosophical or metaphysical speculation. Extremely perceptive. Fine intuition.
• Deep insights into higher matters. Not always certain how to use these insights.
• Strong psychic power. Must learn to trust it.
• Difficulty in choosing directions, solutions. Often uncertain, vacillating. Must
constantly choose path of growth or the easy way. :y DEPENDENT THINKER
SHORT VOWEL as in Cyril, Sylvia, Yvette
Twenty- • Reserved, introspective. Very secretive. ~ fifth letter:
• Works best alone. Often feels isolated. 25: 7
• Feels deeply. Expresses and shares little of these feelings.
• Often not understood by others.
• Extremely keen mind. Given to thought and meditation. Enjoys analysis of
fundamentals, pursuit of wisdom, philosophical or metaphysical speculation.
• Good perceptions. Good intuition.
.·r'
. ".' "Insight into higher matters. Some psychic power. Must learn to trust it. ~ • Extreme difficulty in choosing directions, solutions. Usually uncertain, vacil- ,lating. Must constantly choose path of growth or the easy way. ~ ,,-':
'l
~':' ~ ~ '0 ;!
,y VACILLATOR ,.
~ .'
COMBINED VOWEL as in Boyd, Fay, Raymond :~ ~ • Adds indecision and restlessness to the coloration of the connected vowel. ~ Twenty- • Extreme difficulty in choosing directions, solutions. Usually uncertain. Must
fifth letter: ~ constantly choose path of growth or the easy way. ~ 25: 7 .)
".~ i~ :~ ;
'(
:5
~
-
.~
. - ~ - - - ---- --
THE FIRST VOWEL 377
,
i
CHART12 8 THE FIRST VOWEL
MATERIAL SA TISF ACTION
f--
I
!
LONG VOWEL
Not applicable
,
,
,
SHORT VOWEL "
Not applicable ";
i'
, '- .• r" .").
:.,
"
~j
~~ ~.
~-
COMBINED VOWEL ~;
::'
~
Not applicable ';
,
,"
i;~
'f'~:::~.
"
;i
,
,
,
I 378 REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 12
I CHART 1 2 9 SELFLESSNESS
i THE FIRST VOWEL HUMANITARIANISM
f---.
I EMOTIONAL HUMAN IT ARIAN
LONG VOWEL as in Clive, Ida, Michael
Ninth • Humanitarian. Giving. Serves others with love.
letter: 9 • Sympathetic. Deep emotional understanding of others' needs.
• Sensitive. Often too sensitive for good balance.
• Willing to sacrifice for others. At times, may be disappointed with others'
response or lack of appreciation.
• Idealistic.
• Artistic, creative.
• Very intense. Much energy.
• Conservative. Prefers to work in familiar territory.
• Extremely deep feelings. The emotions rule (sometimes overwhelm) the mental faculties. Wild fluctuations in temperament possible-from joy to depression.
I RESTRAINED HUMAN IT ARIAN
SHORT VOWEL as in Christy, Gilbert, Lillie
Ninth • Humanitarian. Giving. letter: 9 • Quietly sympathetic.
• Sensitive.
• Often willing to sacrifice for others.
• Idealistic.
• Artistic, creative.
• Conservative. Works in familiar territory. '.
• Some intensity at times. A good deal of energy. .. (- > ." Deep feelings, usually expressed with moderation. The emotions rule the mental faculties.
.'
j
~
~
'~
{.
"
I RESTRAINED' HUMAN IT ARIAN ~
COMBINED VOWEL as in Daisy, Frieda, Neil ~~
Ninth Humanitarian. ;
• letter: 9 • Sensitive.
Idealistic. ~
•
• Artistic, creative. 2:
)~
• Conservative. "
• Some intensity at times. A good deal of energy. ~ ~
• Feelings expressed with moderation. i~' ,
I
l, -'--_. -.-- - -'-- .- .-----
THE FIRST VOWEL
CHART12
THE FIRST VOWEL 1
f--.
LONG VOWEL
Not applicable.
SHORT VOWEL
Not applicable
,_ ,.f- ).'
COMBINED VOWEL
Not applicable
11 ( ILLUMINATION
379
;'i.
>
i!
380 REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 12
CHART12
THE FIRST VOWEL 22 MASTER BUILDER
LONG VOWEL
Not applicable
SHORT VOWEL
Not applicable
COMBINED VOWEL
Not applicable
.·rl T-------'------------~
I
The original letters from which these excerpts
were taken are on file at Newcastle Publishing Co., Inc.
I just read your incredible double volume . . . the Best ever
written on the subject.
-Michael Timothy Cassett, radio show host,
author-numerologist, Los Angeles
. I have been studying the numbers for some time now and have
never seen a more "complete" or "thorough" set of books with
which to work.
-Rose M. Uhlhorn, numerology student, Glenview, Illinois
Your work is outstanding I By far the finest work on numerology
I've yet to come across. Sophisticated and quite involved but
clearly and simply explained. Beautifully, beautifully done.
-Ann Walker, R.N., numerology student, St. Louis
It is the most fantastic work of its kind-on any Occult subject
I have come across in the past seven or eight years. I could not
believe that any person would ever write a work on any Occult
subject as thorough and complete as you have managed to do. It
has certainly been one of the biggest thrills going thru your
presentation-I love the systematic and logical way in which you
present this subject.
-Roberta Strain, AMAFA, astrologer, numerologist,
music teacher, Bound Brook, NJ
The most detailed and yet comprehensive treatment of this subject I have yet to findl . . . Your book . . . cannot be surpassed,
and will be treasured in the years ahead.
-Sharla S. Breger, astrologer-numerologist, Chicago.
The book is synergy-putting all aspects of the subject together
-making a powerful tool.
-Jeanne Silk, R.N., M.A.C.S., nurse, psychotherapist,
numerologist, Tempe, Arizona
"'- "'~-.---------------
. - .
, ; 