Garga Horā by Sage Gargācārya




Jupiter in his own house along with Saturn and Mercury will bestow long life. Such native often will beget wealth.

Should Venus be in Pisces along with Jupiter and the Moon, the native will acquire kingly fortunes and will have many sons and family.

Should the Ascendant be in a malefic Rāśi, while the Lord thereof occupies the 7th house and Jupiter is posited in the 8th along with the Sun, the child will die at the age of eight.

If Mercury and Mars be together in the Ascendant, or 6th, or 8th, the native will either be a thief, or will indulge in awful acts. Such a person will have defect in his hands and legs.

Mercury in the Ascendant, or 6th, or 8th can cause death at the age of 4. Even if the native is dipped in nectar, it will be of no avail.

Mars and Jupiter in exchange in Rāśi will inflict death at the age of 12. Even though Lord Siva may desire to save the person, it is rare to escape death in such a case.

Should Jupiter occupy a house of Mars identical with 2nd, 6th, or 8th from Lagna, this child doubtlessly will face death in its sixth year.

If Rahu occupies the Ascendant at birth, while the Moon is in the 6th/9th, the child will die within 20 days of birth. Similar effects will prevail, if Rahu is in the 4th from Lagna, while the Moon occupies one of the angles.

Death will be inflicted by Rahu in the 7th from Lagna, while the Moon is in the Ascendant. Even nectar will not be useful to him and the death will come to pass in the 10th year of the child.

If the Moon is in the 12th from Lagna, while malefics are in the 6th house, the native will be shortlived. He will suffer from stomachial disorders.

If Rahu occupies the 9th, or the 10th, the native will die at 16, though Indra, Lord of Lords, may try to protect him.

Death will come to pass at the age of 20, if Saturn and the Sun are in exchange Rāśi.

If Rahu is in the Ascendant, while the Moon is in the 6th (or both of them being together in the 6th) will promote diseases in the rectum, indigestion and deficiency of a limb.

Death will be caused due to leprosy, or tuberculosis, if the Sun is in 8th, while Saturn is in 6th.

If the Sun is in the Ascendant at birth, the native will be subjected to mental worries and will have no place of his own.

The child will die instantly, if Rahu is in the Ascendant, or in 8th and is in aspect to the Moon. Even Indra cannot save such child.

The native will have a life-span of 100 years, if two Angles are occupied by Jupiter and Venus, while the Sun is in 12th and Mercury is in Lagna.

There will be no Arishtas (evils), if Jupiter is in an Angle, or in a Trine, or in own House/exaltation House, as the Lagna. This will be so throughout the life.

There will be no evils whatsoever, if one of Jupiter, Venus and Mercury is in an Angle and with positional strength.

There is no evil whatsoever, if Saturn happens to be in the Ascendant, 3rd, or the 6th and be at the same time in Libra, Aquarius, or Capricorn.

If the 2nd from the Ascendant is tenanted by Rahu, Mercury, Venus, Saturn and the Sun together, the mother will die soon. Alternatively it can be the father of the child.

if the Sun is in Leo, or in Aries identical with the 6th, or the 11th and is aspected by a friendly planet, the evils, if any are simply counteracted.

Should Rahu be in the Ascendant identical with Aries, Taurus, or Cancer and be in aspect to a benefic planet, no evil exists in the horoscope.

RajaYoga is caused, if Saturn and the Moon are in the Lagna, while its trines are occupied by the Sun and Jupiter. Mars should be simultaneously in the 10th house.

Should the Sun be in the 9th in Leo, the native will not have a surviving co-born. If however, one exists, he becomes a king.

If Rahu is in Karma Sthana i.e. the 10th house, identical with own house and in the company of Mars, Mercury and Venus, the native will sometimes prosper and yet sometimes will have downfall.

The subject is born in a mean descent, if malefics are in the 2nd, Rahu is in the 3rd and Jupiter is in the 5th.

If the Sun etc. (i.e. other malefics) are in the 4th, 5th and 9th, the native will lose his first issue, while the later ones may survive.

Should malefics be in the 2nd along with Mars and Saturn, while Rahu is in the 3rd, the co-born will not survive.

Chatra Yoga is formed, if all planets are in the Ascendant, 2nd, 7th and 12th, he will become a leader of his race.

If the Ascendant is occupied by Venus, 12th by Mercury and the 2nd by a malefic, a RajaYoga is formed and the native becomes a king.

If the Ascendant is occupied by Venus, 12th by Mercury and the 2nd by a malefic, a RajaYoga is formed and the native becomes a king. If the Sun is in the 12th, the subject will be subjected to penury.

The relatives of the native will perish, if the 12th and the 7th are occupied by malefics, while the 2nd by benefics.

There is a RajaYoga, if the Moon and Saturn are in the 2nd, while Jupiter occupies Aries and Rahu with Venus is in the 10th.

Should malefics be in the 2nd, 8th and 12th, the native will lose his eyes in his 8th, or 12th year of age.

The co-born will not survive, if Mars is in the 8th house. Similar effects prevails, if he joins Rahu and Saturn in the 7th house.

The results concerning Karma Sthana (i.e. 10th house) will be meagerly felt, if Mars aspects the 10th house occupying Aries, or Scorpio, while Mercury is associated with malefics.

The native will head many people, if Jupiter is in Leo, while Venus is in virgo, Saturn is in Gemini and Mars in in the 4th identical with own house.

Should Saturn be in Virgo along with the Moon, while Mars is in the sign Capricorn, Rahu in Aquarius and, Jupiter in Leo, the native will destroy the band of his enemies. One born with such planetary array will not be an ordinary man. He will advance his family to a good state and enjoys RajaYoga.

The native will indulge in notorious acts at the age of 20 (i.e. from his 20th year), if Venus is in Sagittarius, the Sun in Aquarius and Mars in Pisces simultaneously.

Should a malefic be in the 11th house, while the 5th is occupied by Venus and the Moon, the native’s first issue will be a female and such female’s mothers will be subjected to many troubles.

There will be destruction of relatives, if the 4th is occupied by Rahu, the 2nd by Jupiter and the 6th, or the 9th by Mercury.

Should the 9th be occupied by Jupiter, Mercury, Venus and the Moon, the subject acquires success in all his undertakings and will be honoured by a king.

If both malefics and benefics occupy severally the 6th, 8th, 5th, 9th and the 12th, the native will be honoured by the king. But he will face many hardships in life.

If the 5th, 6th, 8th and 9th are occupied by, respectively, Mars, Rahu, Venus and the Sun, the native will protect his own people.

If the Ascendant is occupied by Saturn and the Moon, while Venus is posited in the 8th, the subject will be highly libidinous. Though he will be honoured by a King, he can not enjoy any kind of happiness.

If the Moon is in Capricorn at birth along with debilitated Jupiter, or with an inimical planet and aspected by Saturn, the native will be a source of evil to his own co-born.

Leo and Jupiter in Scorpio, the native will be equal to a king.
If at birth Saturn occupies Aquarius, Mars Capricorn and the Moon Aries, while the 2nd house is occupied by the Sun, the subject will enjoy paternal wealth, or his own wealth.

If Mercury and the Sun occupy the 10th, while Rahu is in the 6th, the native will lord over many.

If the Sun is in the 10th in Leo, or Saturn in Libra identical with the 6th, or the Moon and Mercury in the 9th in Gemini, a RajaYoga is formed.

Jupiter in Lagna, while Venus is in the 12th holding the other planets in between indicates RajaYoga, this is to the advantage of the native’s family to become strong (in all respects).

The native doubtlessly becomes a king, if Jupiter is in the 8th and Venus is in the 3rd. All others should be between them.

One born in Libra Lagna with exalted Saturn, while Jupiter is in Taurus, the Moon in Gemini, Mars in Capricorn, Venus in Leo and Mercury in Virgo along with the Sun, will have RajaYoga; he will maintain justice, good deeds and auspiciousness in his life. He will however cause Balarishta in the 8th, or the 12th year. The native will, however, later on prove inauspicious for the elder brother, or sister.

If Libra happens to be the 2nd house, or an angle and is occupied by a malefic, the native only faces sheer poverty. He will not prove a good augury for his own people.

Should the Moon be in the 10th, while Venus is in the 7th and malefics in the 4th, the native’s dynasty ends with him and there will be no further descent in his race.

The mother of the native will not survive, if Saturn is in the 2nd, Rahu in the 3rd and Jupiter is in Pisces.

Should Mars be in the 7th, while Venus is in the 8th followed by the Sun in the 9th, the native will be shortlived.

If Jupiter is in the Ascendant, while Mars is not in the 7th and Venus is not in the 8th and the Sun is not in the 9th an auspicious Yoga is caused. Such a native will live a long lease of life, will have many co-borns, will head many people (i.e. employ many and feed them), will be happy, will lead himself and his co-born to a prosperous level, be free from proud conduct and be pleased in all aspects of life.

If Saturn is in Cancer, while Rahu is in Taurus, the native will be very liberal, will enjoy numerous Yogas, i.e. will reach a very high state in life, will be famous, will be chief in his race and will marry many women. If, however, the said Saturn is lonely and aspects the 5th, there is only one marriage.

The native will meet with his end, if Jupiter and Rahu are together in the Ascendant, or the 4th. The end will be in the 13th year even, if Lord Siva may try to save him. (That is, death in 13th year is certain).

If Mars occupies the 8th, while the Sun is in fall in the 5th, or the 9th and Jupiter must be in accelerated motion. The native is blessed by Lakshmi, the Goddess of Wealth.

Should Venus be in Pisces along with Mercury, while the Ascendant, 2nd and 3rd are, respectively, tenanted by the Sun, Moon and Mars, a Raja Yoga is constituted. One born under this kind of planetary array will respect Gods and preceptors. He will achieve such fame in his own native country and abroad as well, that cannot be achieved by others.

It the 12th is occupied by Jupiter, while the 2nd house has Saturn, Sun, Mars and Mercury, the father of the native will pass away at the time of marriage of the native.

If Jupiter is in the 3rd, while the planet Venus is in the 11th the native will be famous among his relatives and will shine, like a lamp among the men of his race.

If Venus in the Ascendant is unaspected by anyone, while the Moon is in the 2nd and Jupiter is in the 3rd, the native cannot enjoy any paternal earnings.

Should Mars and Saturn be in Leo, while Venus is in Virgo and Rahu is in Gemini, the child will lose its mother (early).

Should Mars and Saturn be in Leo, while Venus is in Virgo and Rahu is in Gemini, this will cause poverty in childhood and happiness in the later part, if the Moon join Mars.

If Lagna happens to be a malefic sign and is occupied by the said malefic Lagna Lord himself, while one among the 4th, 7th and the 10th being a malefic sign is occupied by its own malefic lord, the child will live only upto six. He will prove inauspicious to its mother. Additionally, there will be destruction of maternal relatives, if the 6th house is unaspected by Jupiter.

The child, who has the Sun in Leo, a malefic in Virgo and Rahu in a malefic’s house will only live for six years.

The longevity is only for 19 years, if the Moon is in the 8th, malefics in angles and Rahu in the 10th at birth.

If a benefic planet is exalted in an angle, the native will acquire a large kingdom and will protect his family.

Death of the father is imminent, if a child is born with Rahu in the Ascendant and the Sun in the 7th, while Mars is between Lagna and the 7th.

A child, who has malefics posited in the 7th, 12th, 3rd and 8th, will always have an ailing physique.

Should malefics be in the Lagna, 12th and 8th simultaneously, the child will be deprived of its mother instantly, while its father will leave this world in its 4th, or 10th year of age.

1st
Sūrya, Candr: will have many sons, will not be happy in regard to parents, will be subjected to mental worries.

Sūrya, Mangal: will be unhappy about his father, will be wicked, will always wander from place to place, will be meanly disposed.

Sūrya, Budh: will not have conveyances, will be wickedly disposed, will have ill-reputed history, will commit sinful acts, be forsaken by friends and relatives.

Sūrya, Guru: will have little intelligence, will look ugly, will be a dunce, will be ungrateful, thievishly disposed and jealous.

Sūrya, Śukr: will hate scholars, will not have many children, will be cruel, angrily disposed, will trouble others, be fierce and dejected.

Sūrya, Śani: will be a simpleton, be sick, be given up by his relatives and will not possess good qualities.

Candr, Mangal: wicked, poor, talkative and not virtuous.

Candr, Budh: will have good speech, will be rich, beautiful, passionate, modest and will be addicted to other women.

Candr, Guru: will be good-looking, long-lived, very famous, will have attractive eyes and hair on the head.

Candr, Śukr: will be interested in good affairs, will have very beautiful face, will be affluent, interested in being virtuous and dear to king.

Candr, Śani in the 1st Bhava: will earn money in bad ways, will know only bad things, be mean-minded, be attached to others money, be won by unsocial elements.

Mangal, Budh in the 1st Bhava: can easily dupe others, will be an able speaker, interested in living in foreign countries and will have bad notions.

Mangal, Guru in the 1st Bhava: will be hard-hearted, will have few sons, will entertain others and will be interested in doing bad acts.

Mangal, Śukr in the 1st Bhava: will have phlegmatic imbalances, will undertake futile jobs, will cheat others, will be ungrateful, will have a valorous son and will not achieve success in any of his undertaking.

Mangal, Śani in the 1st Bhava: will be interested in committing sinful acts, will defy others, be interested in speaking harshly and be fiercely disposed.

Budh, Guru in the 1st Bhava: will be beautiful in appearance, be fortunate, splendourous, rich and pleasing.

Budh, Śukr: will be connected with royal duties, will be worth praising by kings, will be interested in various Śāstras, be rich and truthfully disposed.

Budh, Śani in the 1st Bhava: will be expert in carrying out the orders of the king, will possess a bad wife, be indigent and will face obstructions from the public.

Guru, Śukr in the 1st Bhava: will be dear to king, be inclined to earn more wealth, will have more knowledge in policies, be very rich and be an exponent of Śāstras to a great proportion.

Guru, Śani in the 1st Bhava: will be very wealthy, highly educated, be not cunning, will face many risks and be untruthful.

Śukr, Śani in the 1st Bhava: will be foolish, ungrateful and always attached to his men.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal in the 1st Bhava: will be liked by his elders, be defective limbed, be a liar and be cruel, blameworthy and foolish.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh in the 1st Bhava: He will be foolish.

Sūrya, Candr, Guru in the 1st Bhava: Will have all auspiciousness, be inclined to be virtuous, be intelligent, rich, very powerful on others and be always happy.

Sūrya, Candr, Śukr in the 1st Bhava: will have auspicious events, be famous, prestigious, wealthy, chief among men and be justly disposed. This position bestows an early marriage and an amiable wife.

Sūrya, Candr, Śani in the 1st Bhava: will have a fearful body (i.e. be fierce in appearance), be short lived, sick, sinful, capable of promoting quarrels and will be forsaken by relatives.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh in the 1st Bhava: will be very industrious, will always be troubled, be inimically disposed to others, be ungrateful and subjected to phlegmatic and windy diseases.

Sūrya, Mangal, Guru in the 1st Bhava: will always be proud, be highly egoistic, will possess a fleet of horses and will be keen in imparting vices to others.

Sūrya, Mangal, Śukr in the 1st Bhava: will be chief, justly disposed, will have good qualities and be dear to his relatives.

Sūrya, Mangal, Śani in the 1st Bhava: will acquire a wife to promote monetary state, be short-lived, be subjected to many diseases, untruthful and foolish.

Sūrya, Budh, Guru in the 1st Bhava: will be skilful, will advance through his undertakings, will befriend many and be an expert in war.

Sūrya, Budh, Śukr in the 1st Bhava: will be modest, valorous, chief among Brahmins and be happy.

Sūrya, Budh, Śani in the 1st Bhava: will be exposed to penury and diseases, will not have good qualities, be unjust and be forsaken by his own men and others as well.

Sūrya, Guru, Śukr in the 1st Bhava: will be leader of men, be fond of acquiring many children and will be free from enemies and such other troubles.

Sūrya, Guru, Śani in the 1st Bhava: will have more enemies, will have to spend on bad missions, will like to commit sins, be defective in some limb and be weak.

Sūrya, Śukr, Śani in the 1st Bhava: will undertake mean professions to earn money, will suffer poverty, will have vices, be fond of wandering and will earn his food by performing Homas etc.

Candr, Mangal, Budh in the 1st Bhava: will own a fine house to live in, be very wealthy, justly disposed, be free from enemies and will earn knowledge in Śāstras.

Candr, Mangal, Guru in the 1st Bhava: will be happy, very prestigious, be attached to his work, be virtuous, will have many friends and will be a great person.

Candr, Mangal, Śukr in the 1st Bhava: will be subjected to much grief, will have vices, will have highly placed relatives, be very intelligent and be bright in appearance.

Candr, Mangal, Śani in the 1st Bhava: will be ever modest, be fond of guests, be interested in donation-giving, be very wise and will stand to gain a lot.

Candr, Budh, Guru in the 1st Bhava: will be a king, will possess attractive physique, be very valorous and be always happy.

Candr, Budh, Śukr in the 1st Bhava: will be very efficacious, attached to the virtuous, will have no knowledge of arts (practical, or fine, which are Śani, Budh in the 1st Bhava: in number, such, as music, dance etc.) and will be versed in justice.

Candr, Guru, Śukr in the 1st Bhava: will marry a highly placed lady, will have rich food to eat, be very happy and will donate liberally.

Candr, Guru, Śani in the 1st Bhava: will not be so efficacious (here Hora Ratna states, that the native will have appealing physique), be firm, will be eloquent, inimically disposed to the public, will have knowledge of poison (i.e. will deal with poison) and will have interest in bad deeds.

Candr, Śukr, Śani in the 1st Bhava: will have sons and money, will maintain fasten and other religious observations, will have many plans in mind about things to be done, be bright and will have good mind.

Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 1st Bhava: will always be modest, will gain several ways from foreign countries, be famous and be favorably disposed towards his dependants.

Mangal, Budh, Śukr in the 1st Bhava: will have broad eyes and face, will have properly combed hair, be sweet in speech, truthful in disposition and will be easy to be approached.

Mangal, Budh, Śani in the 1st Bhava: will be unjust, regardless of law, will have bad wife, have few sons and will kill animals.

Mangal, Guru, Śukr in the 1st Bhava: will be good natured, will be endowed with virtues, wealth and children and will be respectful towards Brahmins and Gods.

Mangal, Guru, Śani in the 1st Bhava: will be phlegmatic, wicked, be won by his wife, be troubled by hunger and be a talebearer.

Mangal, Śukr, Śani in the 1st Bhava: will have a surprising body, be fierce, will not have any code of conduct, be inimical to his own men and be confused.

Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 1st Bhava: will consider money, as most important, be beautiful, attached to women, friendly and very valorous.

Budh, Guru, Śani in the 1st Bhava: will be subjected to phlegmatic diseases, fond of meat etc., will have hard teeth and coarse hair, be hard-hearted and will create terror among the people.

Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 1st Bhava: will have swarthy body, be windy in temperament, be libidinous, torturous and very argumentative.

Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 1st Bhava: will stick to religious observations, with delight in the contemplation of Supreme Spirit, will advocate final Emancipation effectively and be devoid of fear of tens of millions in kind.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh in the 1st Bhava: will be very sickly, will not be good-natured, will be interested in sinful acts, be ungrateful and will suffer from physical ailments.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Guru in the 1st Bhava: will be interested in bad acts, sick, sinful thankless, devoid of learning, ugly and fearful.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Śukr in the 1st Bhava: will wander purposelessly, will cheat others, be interested in blaming and be timid.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Śani in the 1st Bhava: will be interested in being just and be virtuous, will be ugly, forsaken by servants and will cheat others.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Guru in the 1st Bhava: will be very timid, be a cheat, be attached to relatives and hardhearted.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Śukr in the 1st Bhava: will like bad odour, be indigent, foolish, will not have friends and will be defeated by enemies.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Śani in the 1st Bhava: will be foolish, nightblind, will be interested in residing in bad places and be very poor.

Sūrya, Candr, Guru, Śukr in the 1st Bhava: will be untruthful, will have few sons, will speak harshly, will be won over by enemies and will be subjected to grief.

Sūrya, Candr, Guru, Śani in the 1st Bhava: will be dull-witted, have control over his senses, be skilful in taking things from others and be honoured for his deeds.

Sūrya, Candr, Śukr, Śani in the 1st Bhava: will be auspicious, be dejected with people, will be very fair in complexion, will not have much money, will be hard in disposition.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 1st Bhava: will be very valorous, will have voice, resembling that of a crow, be unkind, will have less money and will have physical deficiencies out of sickness etc.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Śani in the 1st Bhava: will have interest in sexual affairs, be expert in gambling, be unkind, more phlegmatic in temperament and be not bright in appearance.

Sūrya, Mangal, Guru, Śukr in the 1st Bhava: will be troubled by sickness, will have vices, be very miserable and unkind.

Sūrya, Mangal, Guru, Śani in the 1st Bhava: will have fearful eyes, will spend in bad ways, will wear rags and will be dejected with his wife, but attached to his son.

Sūrya, Mangal, Śukr, Śani in the 1st Bhava: will not be efficacious, be always insulted and be fickle-minded.

Sūrya, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 1st Bhava: will have ugly eyes, be unkind and disturbed.

Sūrya, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 1st Bhava: will do irreligious things in times of danger, will serve mean people, be ill-natured, shameless and will face troubles from the king.

Sūrya, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 1st Bhava: will be given to anger, will have wicked wife, will always be a servant and be forsaken by his relatives. He will be inimical to all.

Sūrya, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 1st Bhava: will promote quarrels, be wicked, be immodest and will always move with sinful persons.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 1st Bhava: will possess a very dark and long body, will be interested in fighting, will suffer from bloody disorders and will poorly dress himself.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śukr in the 1st Bhava: will not have sons and wealth, will have ugly ears, teeth and eyes, be a voracious eater, be ascetic and wicked.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śani in the 1st Bhava: will have uneven legs, ugly hair and ugly teeth.

Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śukr in the 1st Bhava: will have un ugly physique, ugly nails and ugly sides, will indulge in acceptable deeds and will be a tale-bearer.

Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śani in the 1st Bhava: will be very famous, be helpful to others, be free from enemies, be attached to his sons and affectionate to his preceptors.

Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 1st Bhava: will be endowed with sons and a fleet of horse, be interested in Śāstras, will destroy sinners, be quite famous and be pure-hearted.

Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 1st Bhava: will be foolish, be phlegmatic and windy, dear to preceptors and be not proud.

Mangal, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 1st Bhava: will have horrible notions, be long-bodied, will wear twisted hair, as an ascetic, be not virtuous, subject to skin afflictions and will suffer from itches.

Mangal, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 1st Bhava: will be a bald-headed, fearless, learned, black in complexion and be in auspicious.

Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 1st Bhava: will be very efficacious, will have good (i.e. beautiful, or strong) nails, be tall, patient, will have beautiful hands and be fair complexioned.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 1st Bhava: will be very wealthy, be interested in Śāstras, be dear to elders and be attached to his sons.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śukr in the 1st Bhava: will be important by virtue of his good qualities, be good looking, be devoted to help the public and liberal in giving donations.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śani in the 1st Bhava: will beat (or kill) firmly, be unkind, will be strong bodied and be bereft of wisdom.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śukr in the 1st Bhava: will be firm in disposition, very efficacious, cruel, be a poet, be famous and dejected.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śani in the 1st Bhava: will have wounded body, will eat voraciously, be unjustly disposed, be very splendourous and be highly given to sexual feelings.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Śukr, Śani in the 1st Bhava: will have interest in others wealth, will have long penis, will be full of veins, will have foul smell in the body and be cruel.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 1st Bhava: will be endowed with sons, learning, wealth and relatives and will have attractive eyes, ears, teeth and nose.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 1st Bhava: will have sickly body, will be bilious and phlegmatic in temperament and will always move in forests.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 1st Bhava: will have own business, will have income through arts, be liberal in giving away gifts and will be endowed with all pleasures.

Sūrya, Candr, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 1st Bhava: will be free form grief and fear, be inactive, or foolish due to some sin, or blemish and will be highly pious.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 1st Bhava: will consider justice, as the most supreme aim, will have virtues, be truthful, be dear to the virtuous and will have pleasing looks.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 1st Bhava: will be subjected, troubles by abundantly, labouring, will be extremely emaciated, skilful in spending, expert in guess, be devoid of wealth, be phlegmatic, expert in promoting quarrels and will cheat.

Sūrya, Mangal, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 1st Bhava: will be worshipped by Lord indra (i.e. so superior a person), will eat and drink abundantly, will be interested in possessing conveyances, will possess attractive eyes and be unkind.

Sūrya, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 1st Bhava: will consider piousness, as supreme, be a good singer, be very strong, very happy and truthful.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 1st Bhava: will be interested in comforts will always be pure and clean, will be interested in listening to auspicious stories, will have a beautiful body and be the leader of men.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 1st Bhava: will have good knees and feet, will follow elders in respect of fame, wealth and happiness, be interested in performing sacrifices, worship etc.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 1st Bhava: will have more gains, will be subjected to fear, will contact be venereal diseases due to sexual union with poor women and will wander.

Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 1st Bhava: will be endowed with happiness, will have a fleet of horses, will have many friends, be proud, dear to good people and will befriend elders.

Candr, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 1st Bhava: will have loss of horses, will practice self restraint, will present an artificial disposition (while inwardly he will be of a different nature), will be pious and will have parents with him.

Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 1st Bhava: will consider money, as the most important aim, will have knowledge of Śāstras, will win his five senses and will be pious to the Almighty.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 1st Bhava: will be helpful to others, wicked, cruel, will be subjected to grief and be virtuous.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 1st Bhava: will be subjected to great penury, be devoid of enemies, be extreme in nature, will be forsaken by his caste, will have defect in limbs, be very sickly broken-hearted and modest.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 1st Bhava: will be hard hearted and will always be insulted by others.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 1st Bhava: will be interested in committing sinful acts and will have many kind of diseases.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 1st Bhava: will have vices and various diseases.

2nd
Sūrya, Candr in the 2nd Bhava: will not have money, will be ungrateful, will always possess bad disposition, will not be splendourous, will be subjected to diseases and fear.

Sūrya, Mangal in the 2nd Bhava: will suffer from penury, be shameless, unkind and sinful.

Sūrya, Budh in the 2nd Bhava: His body will be full of boils and wounds, he will not have any property, will be bad in disposition, will be bereft of servants, be troubled by others and will be subjected to much grief.

Sūrya, Guru in the 2nd Bhava: will be immodest, will be troubled, interested in committing sinful acts, be eloquent in speech and will contact difficulties in foreign countries.

Sūrya, Śukr in the 2nd Bhava: will be cruel in nature, attached to basemen, will have many enemies, will instil fear in others and be not bright in appearance.

Sūrya, Śani in the 2nd Bhava: will contact many diseases, will approach others in vain, be unkind, be not angry and will not join the virtuous.

Candr, Mangal in the 2nd Bhava: will be ruled by the public, will have a dejected wife, will look old, be ungrateful, be a servant, be wicked and bright in appearance.

Candr, Budh in the 2nd Bhava: will be very rich, be free from vices and dear to the king.

Candr, Guru in the 2nd Bhava: will be a king, will be splendourous, be interested in virtues, will destroy enemies, will have many sons and be liked by the public.

Candr, Śukr in the 2nd Bhava: will have virtue, as his wealth, will be either a king, or a minister, will have many friends and will be attached to his son.

Candr, Śani in the 2nd Bhava: will not have any wealth, will follow bad course, will be troubled by enemies, be argumentative in nature and his relatives will perish.

Mangal, Budh in the 2nd Bhava: will lose wife and wealth, be subjected to blemish, will contact diseases, will not possess good qualities and will not patronize his relatives.

Mangal, Guru in the 2nd Bhava: will be sickly, be unwise, ill-natured, will have few sons and will be blamed in arguments.

Mangal, Śukr in the 2nd Bhava: will be sickly, be unwise, ill-natured, will have few sons and will be blamed in arguments.

Mangal, Śani in the 2nd Bhava: will have wealth, grains, pearls and such other precious stones, will acquire few sons and be untruthful.

Budh, Guru in the 2nd Bhava: will have knowledge of Supreme Spirit, will head a town, or be equal to a king, be wealthy, will have virtues worth respect and will be expert in mathematics.

Budh, Śukr: will acquire a fleet of horses and elephants, be very wealthy, wise, virtuous, truthful and will be dear to Brahmins.

Budh, Śani in the 2nd Bhava: will be devoid of wealth, fierce, wicked and will join bad elements.

Guru, Śukr in the 2nd Bhava: will be chief among kings, will be endowed with honour, wealth and army, will honour good deeds, will live by praise and valour and will be successful.

Guru, Śani in the 2nd Bhava: will be troubled by kings, be quite sickly, greedy, be free from enemies and be not happy in any respect.

Śukr, Śani in the 2nd Bhava: will be bereft of sons and money, be dirty in appearance, cruel and will perform bad acts.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal in the 2nd Bhava: will not be wealthy, be troubled by others, be not efficacious, be cruel and will be troubled by fear.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh in the 2nd Bhava: will be timid by nature, be indigent, will have a bad wife and will experience grief by his own bad acts.

Sūrya, Candr, Guru in the 2nd Bhava: will have gad sons, will torture others, be sensuous, ungrateful and will instil fear in elders.

Sūrya, Candr, Śukr in the 2nd Bhava: will indulge in enmity with friends, will have conveyances, will not have much wealth, will look ugly, will depend on elders and be given to anger.

Sūrya, Candr, Śani in the 2nd Bhava: will be ungrateful, be interested in visiting foreign countries, interested in gambling, will face troubles, be not virtuous and be with little wealth.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh in the 2nd Bhava: will be a dunce, a spendthrift, be truthful, will have a prodigal son, be shameless and be devoid of friendliness.

Sūrya, Mangal, Guru in the 2nd Bhava: will be devoid of wealth, be wicked, will have a lean body and will earn enmity in service.

Sūrya, Mangal, Śukr in the 2nd Bhava: will not have common sense, will be forsaken by many, will prove a bad servant, be interested in battle and will lose property.

Sūrya, Mangal, Śani in the 2nd Bhava: will have a polluted physique, be devoid of qualities and wealth, be fond of promoting quarrels, be sick at all times and will be condemned by good people.

Sūrya, Budh, Guru in the 2nd Bhava: will have many wounds and boils in the body, be blamed, wicked, be troubled by people and will wound other’s feelings.

Sūrya, Budh, Śukr in the 2nd Bhava: will be always insulted, will look, like a lion, be sensuous, miserly, will face ups and downs and be a simpleton.

Sūrya, Budh, Śani in the 2nd Bhava: will derive help from his own people, will be indigent, be fierce, be not virtuous and be a simpleton.

Sūrya, Guru, Śukr in the 2nd Bhava: will be dull-witted, not learned, unwise, will lose property, be defeated and be a miser.

Sūrya, Guru, Śani in the 2nd Bhava: will be given to much anger, be troubled by diseases, be interested in promoting quarrels, be devoid of righteous deeds and be very indigent.

Sūrya, Śukr, Śani in the 2nd Bhava: will be interested in acts, which are not righteous, be wicked, immodest, troubled and will indulge in gad acts.

Candr, Mangal, Budh in the 2nd Bhava: will be subject to vicissitude, be harsh in speech, be scandalous in money matters, be childless, ge fiver to much anger, will suffer from diseases and be forsaken by his relatives.

Candr, Mangal, Guru in the 2nd Bhava: will be poor in status, be devoid of wife, issue and wealth, be very greedy and will suffer from diseases.

Candr, Mangal, Śukr in the 2nd Bhava: will be troubled by diseases caused due to phlegmatic disorders, will not respect his preceptors, be very justly disposed and will be banned from the purview of Śāstras.

Candr, Mangal, Śani in the 2nd Bhava: will be naturally wicked, be fond of alcohol, be interested in gambling, be a dejected soul and be forsaken by his relatives.

Candr, Budh, Guru in the 2nd Bhava: will be a king, will be insulted much, be beautiful land will be endowed with learning and riches.

Candr, Budh, Śukr in the 2nd Bhava: will be affluent, will have a number of friends, will be learned in Śāstras, be virtuous, be very learned and be always affectionate.

Candr, Budh, Śani in the 2nd Bhava: will be efficacious and helpful, be a spendthrift, be subjected to grief on account of his wife, ge a donor and will cheat others.

Candr, Guru, Śukr in the 2nd Bhava: will be happy, will have good ideals, be a king, be very famous, be very wise and will have a questionable (mean) profession.

Candr, Guru, Śani in the 2nd Bhava: will be free from anger, will be interested in good conduct, be sweet in disposition, will be attractive and will be affectionate to his son.

Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 2nd Bhava: will be devoid of ideals, will not have any wealth, be very wicked, be attached to other’s wives, will wander aimlessly and will be tortured by his libidinous disposition.

Mangal, Budh, Śukr in the 2nd Bhava: will consider justice, as the most supreme ideal, be an agriculturist, will pull carts, will own fleet of quadrupeds and will have many friends.

Mangal, Budh, Śani in the 2nd Bhava: will be very angrily disposed, will be fond of meat and flesh, will be interested in possessing weapons, will torture others, will spend much and be a source of grief to his own people.

Mangal, Guru, Śukr in the 2nd Bhava: will be and expert artisan, will take to righteous path, will perform penance, will possess attractive body and be fearless.

Mangal, Guru, Śani in the 2nd Bhava: will possess good robes, will enjoy much of pleasures, will be interested in women, will be an able speaker, be interested in Śāstras, be very wealthy and very attractive.

Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 2nd Bhava: will be a king, will own a fleet of superior class of elephants and horses, be very affluent and be attached to his relatives.

Budh, Guru, Śani in the 2nd Bhava: will become superior by his righteous acts, be famous, be useful (to others), be very kind and be garrulous.

Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 2nd Bhava: will have a strong and prominent belly, will be interested in various sciences and to be truthful, be a drunkard, but will be piously attached to Lord Krishna.

Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 2nd Bhava: will be endowed with sons and wealth, will be a scholar, be justly disposed, be happy, be very affectionate and splendourous.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh in the 2nd Bhava: will be attached to evil countries (or places), will indulge in unethical acts, will derive happiness from his wicked wife and will incur grief through his sons.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Guru in the 2nd Bhava: will not be of good disposition, will not be virtuous, will be untruthful, will be very phlegmatic in temperament and libidinous.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Śukr in the 2nd Bhava: will always be worried, be dirty, will instil fear in others, be ungrateful, be troubled and be not famous.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Śani in the 2nd Bhava: will have shaky teeth and long stomach, will not be so freely, will speak doubtfully (not confident), be unwise and be not successful in his mission.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Guru in the 2nd Bhava: will eat anything available, will be troubled due to excess of the three humours, will be very greedy and will befriend very bad elements.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Śukr in the 2nd Bhava: will have diseases related to penis (i.e. urinal diseases, venereal diseases, bladder etc.), will be of mean disposition, will have few sons, will have daughters and be not virtuous.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Śani in the 2nd Bhava: will suffer headache and from windy and phlegmatic diseases and be not attached to his own people.

Sūrya, Candr, Guru, Śukr in the 2nd Bhava: will not be sharp, will be dejected with people, will be troubled, blame -worthy and timid.

Sūrya, Candr, Guru, Śani in the 2nd Bhava: will have plenty of hair on the head, will not be dear to the virtuous, elders, Brahmins etc., will grow by eating food given by others and will have trouble from kings.

Sūrya, Candr, Śukr, Śani in the 2nd Bhava: will be devoid of sons, will grow fat by excess work, will have mean ideals and be bereft of pleasures.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 2nd Bhava: will be devoid of good disposition, be fierce, be devoid of sons, will be interested in women, will have diseased eyes, be spendthrift and have mental worries.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Śukr in the 2nd Bhava: will be sinful, be forsaken by his virtuous wife, will be devoid of good relatives and be interested in sexual acts.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Śani in the 2nd Bhava: will be troubled by wounds, will have fear, be very proud, be very sinful and be not well-taught.

Sūrya, Mangal, Guru, Śukr in the 2nd Bhava: will have good speech and eyes, will be a tale-bearer, will not show interest in giving donations/gifts, be not grateful and will suffer from great blemishes.

Sūrya, Mangal, Guru, Śani in the 2nd Bhava: will be very famous, will have big bones and long hair, will live in foreign countries, will have more enemies, will be friendly, will always be angry, be troubled, wicked, cruel, shameless and be forsaken by his wife.

Sūrya, Mangal, Śukr, Śani in the 2nd Bhava: will have many troubles, be not virtuous, be devoid of happiness and knowledge of Śāstras and will befriend only sinners.

Sūrya, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 2nd Bhava: will be sickly be emaciated, be less truthful, be dull-witted and interested in bad tales.

Sūrya, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 2nd Bhava: will not have wealth, will be greedy, will look ugly and will have diseased eyes, will not have happy relations, will be interested in sexual affairs and be sickly disposed.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 2nd Bhava: will be dear to sages/good people, be interested in Śāstras and Puranas, be devoted to Brahmins and will be pleasing to look at.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śukr in the 2nd Bhava: will be interested in visiting shrines, religious observations and Śāstras, will be worshipped and be equal to a king.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śani in the 2nd Bhava: will consider money the most important, will have agricultural profession, will own a fleet of horses, will acquire gold, will be famous, will be a poet, will be interested in giving donations/gifts and will be attractive in appearance.

Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śukr in the 2nd Bhava: will be devoid of learning, will be calculative, will be a scholar and dear to Brahmins.

Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śani in the 2nd Bhava: will be successful, will have virtuous children, be affluent, be honoured even by kings, will observe religious regulations, will have various kinds of horses, robes and things, be free from diseases and be virtuous.

Candr, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 2nd Bhava: will be interested in performing sacrifices of religious nature and serving the virtuous, be an able speaker, be very wealthy and be interested in Śāstras.

Candr, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 2nd Bhava: will be dear to Brahmins, will possess attractive body, will speak smilingly, be always happy and be dear to the king.

Candr, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 2nd Bhava: will be a chief with the king, will be respected even by his enemies, will have much wealth and donate liberally.

Candr, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 2nd Bhava: will be chief among many men, be respected by kings, be minister, be always happy and be famous.

Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 2nd Bhava: will be favourable to Brahmins, be famously valorous, be skilful in achieving royal missions patient and happy in all respects.

Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 2nd Bhava: will be related to foreign countries, will have income, be attached to the virtuous, will have gardens and wills and will be on king’s mission.

Mangal, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 2nd Bhava: will have a modest wife, will have attractive body, be attached to the virtuous and will have abundant grains and money.

Mangal, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 2nd Bhava: will have abundant corns, will acquire knowledge of Śāstras, be happy, be chief amongst poets and will be principled.

Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 2nd Bhava: will be skilful in all kinds of arts, will destroy enemies, will be famous and be attached to wealth.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 2nd Bhava: will be worried, very greedy, not wise and will have small body.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śukr in the 2nd Bhava: will be subjected to troubles due to excessive mundane attachment, be not splendourous, be windy in temperament and interested in committing sinful acts.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śani in the 2nd Bhava: will be a night-blind, be libidinous, will lose his property, will be inimical to many and be dull-witted.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śukr in the 2nd Bhava: will be without any assignment, be not rich, be without good robes, be troubled by diseases and interested in living in foreign countries.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śani in the 2nd Bhava: will be inimical even to friends, be not helpful to others, will be very poor, will have poor (unrewarding) profession and be not valorous.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Śukr, Śani in the 2nd Bhava: will be interested in association with wicked people, will be troubled by wounds and boils, be very sinful and be much angrily disposed.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 2nd Bhava: will be egoistic, impatient, unkind and unjust.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 2nd Bhava: will be very greedy, short tempered, devoid of desires, be unjust and timid.

Sūrya, Candr, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 2nd Bhava: will be poor, be troubled out of fear, be very sinful, devoid of desires, interested in virtues and will have attractive eyes and legs.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 2nd Bhava: will be blame-worthy, ungrateful, will do others’ jobs, will give high importance to wife and will not be masculine in disposition.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 2nd Bhava: will face obstacles (in his undertakings), will cheat, be ungrateful, will undertake to do inimical acts and will have and inimical wife.

Sūrya, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 2nd Bhava: will not have people of his own, who will have their money (i.e. his own people will be devoid of money), will have vices, will not be kind at all and will be inimical to Śāstras.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 2nd Bhava: will be interested in getting the jobs of his relatives done, be very wealthy, learned in Vedas (Śāstras etc.) and be pure.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 2nd Bhava: will have good friends, be modest, be disinterested, will not have food to eat and will suffer from lung disorders.

Candr, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 2nd Bhava: will be devoted to elders and Brahmins, be good looking, be liberal and skilful in divine undertakings, viz. Puja etc.

Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 2nd Bhava: will be given to anger to a small extent, will be very interested in friends and Śāstras and be adventurous.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 2nd Bhava: will be very much worried, be devoid of truth and wealth, wicked and attached to bad elements.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 2nd Bhava: will not attain crops, will have no sons, be very wicked, attached to undesirable learning etc. and will befriend bad elements.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 2nd Bhava: will be given to anger chiefly, will prove an evil to friends, be chief among men and be a big cheat.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 2nd Bhava: will be proud, will dislike to listen to religious stories, will be fickle-minded in speech and will be subjected to much grief.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 2nd Bhava: will not attain fame, will not be rich, be blameworthy, be chief and be free from expenses.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 2nd Bhava: will not successfully perform his own profession, will be foolish, sick and be troubled.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 2nd Bhava: The native will have the seas, as boundaries of his kingdom, will hold the flag of virtue aloft and be very famous.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 2nd Bhava: will be endowed with wealth, horses and elephants galore and be highly virtuous.

3rd
Sūrya, Candr: will have affectionate wife and affectionate relatives, will be attached to others, will observe religious fasting etc., will have knowledge of Śāstras, will possess sweet voice, will be a poet and will have increasing fame.

Sūrya, Mangal: will be equal to a king, will have lands, be interested in possessing conveyances, will have attractive eyes, will be courteous to guests and will acquire many sons.

Sūrya, Budh in the 3rd Bhava: will have many sons and grandsons, will be widely famous, be very valorous, will win his five senses and be dear to people.

Sūrya, Guru in the 3rd Bhava: will be wicked, will have many family members, will be firm in nature and will not have growing wisdom.

Sūrya, Śukr in the 3rd Bhava: will lose his good son, be mean minded, will suffer much poverty, be interested in foreign visits and will be very proud.

Sūrya, Śani: will have lasting blame, will kill his enemies, will be expert in eloquent speech and will be useful to kings.

Candr, Mangal: will be an expert agriculturist, be unhappy, will have many expenses, be dear to women and be attached to his children.

Candr, Budh: will by ugly, be interested in gambling, be jealous, wicked, ill-tempered and always fickle-minded.

Candr, Guru in the 3rd Bhava: will have great vices, be subjected to much worries, be interested in making enmity and be not bold.

Candr, Śukr: will have attractive hands and thighs, be dull-witted, will be able to endure worries and will live a life with poverty.

Candr, Śani in the 3rd Bhava: will be free from diseases, be devoid of worldly desires, will be attentive, be honoured by many virtuous people and be passionate.

Mangal, Budh in the 3rd Bhava: will be helpful to others, will possess a physique with pleasant flavour, will have beautiful hair, be very efficacious and be endowed with all riches.

Mangal, Guru in the 3rd Bhava: be fearless, interested in virtues, very pious, splendourous, highly truthful and pure.

Mangal, Śukr: will be skillful artist, be virtuous, interested in visiting shrines, will possess good qualities and be justly disposed.

Mangal, Śani: will be so powerful, as a king, be free from all kind of diseases, will head even the kings and will attain success over enemies.

Budh, Guru in the 3rd Bhava: will be fearful in war, dull-witted, be not virtuous, be devoid of intelligence, will not have good relatives and be sickly.

Budh, Śukr in the 3rd Bhava: will possess riches, be afflicted, will be ignorant, or illusioned, be highly interested in sexual acts, be troubled by sons and will suffer from secret diseases.

Budh, Śani in the 3rd Bhava: will be close to affluent class, be interested in good conduct, will possess attractive limbs, will have bright face and be of good disposition.

Guru, Śukr in the 3rd Bhava: will not be prosperous, be devoid of sons, be defeated, will have abundant grief and also abundant happiness, be devoid of shame and be not friendly.

Guru, Śani in the 3rd Bhava: will be firm in disposition, will be self-sufficient in respect of food, drinks and robes learned, be chief in his race and rich.

Śukr, Śani in the 3rd Bhava: will be endowed with riches, will possess a clear disposition, be dear to kings free from diseases and honoured.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal in the 3rd Bhava: will have very supreme position, will have conveyances, be prosperous, be very rich and will be intelligent.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh in the 3rd Bhava: will be very fortunate, be interested in Śāstras, be inclined to do the jobs of the virtuous, be a great person and be devoid of fear.

Sūrya, Candr, Guru in the 3rd Bhava: will not be efficacious, will have a barren wife, be interested in befriending mean people, be prone to danger and devoid of learning.

Sūrya, Candr, Śukr in the 3rd Bhava: will be troubled by sickness, be ungrateful, be deformed and wicked.

Sūrya, Candr, Śani in the 3rd Bhava: will possess beautiful body, be interested in performing Homas, Pooja, donation etc., will have many friends and be shameful.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh in the 3rd Bhava: will be chief in a king’s place, be highly truthful, be famous, be very beautiful, be very rich, be interested in donating and will have others in his company.

Sūrya, Mangal, Guru in the 3rd Bhava: will be very valorous, will have control over his five senses, be not given to anger, be virtuous and attached to others.

Sūrya, Mangal, Śukr in the 3rd Bhava: will not be beautiful, be interested in performing virtues acts, will have many children and be devoid of sexual feelings.

Sūrya, Mangal, Śani in the 3rd Bhava: will be king of kings, will be very rich with elephants and horses, be valorous, be a poet and will instil fear in enemies.

Sūrya, Budh, Guru in the 3rd Bhava: will be a successful army chief, will win over his enemies and be endowed with patience.

Sūrya, Budh, Śukr in the 3rd Bhava: will be endowed with quadrupeds, be dear to virtuous people, be an agriculturist, be very rich and acceptable to all.

Sūrya, Budh, Śani in the 3rd Bhava: will win over enemies, will possess many weapons, be expert in fighting a war, be patient and will always have good conduct.

Sūrya, Guru, Śukr in the 3rd Bhava: will be justly disposed, interested in stories and be equal to a king.

Sūrya, Guru, Śani in the 3rd Bhava: will be famous for performance, will be interested in giving donations, be attached to women, be attractive, will-trained and skilful in all arts.

Candr, Mangal, Budh in the 3rd Bhava: be learned in Vedas, be an agriculturist, be interested in listening to religious stories, will have strong body and be very valorous.

Candr, Mangal, Guru in the 3rd Bhava: will perform peculiar acts, be interested in learning Śāstras, will enjoy various kinds of food and drinks and will be principled and opposed to sinful schemes.

Candr, Mangal, Śukr in the 3rd Bhava: will possess a modest wife, will be full of faith, be skilful in speech, famous and fearless.

Candr, Mangal, Śani in the 3rd Bhava: will be helpful to others, famous, very rich, splendourous, modest and will be lord of women.

Candr, Budh, Guru in the 3rd Bhava: will always be poor, will promote quarrels, be ill-tempered, interested in committing sinful deeds and will destroy his own relatives.

Candr, Budh, Śukr in the 3rd Bhava: will be insulted by others, will undertake mean professions, be ungrateful, be subjected to much grief and be opposed to good men.

Candr, Budh, Śani in the 3rd Bhava: will grow by eating others’food, destroy enemies, be free from sickness and be always happy.

Candr, Guru, Śukr in the 3rd Bhava: will be subjected to many difficulties, be shameless, unkind and inimical to Śāstras, elders and Brahmins.

Candr, Guru, Śani in the 3rd Bhava: will eat any casual food, will be honoured by all, will control his mind, will be a lord, be not learned and will destroy his enemies.

Candr, Śukr, Śani in the 3rd Bhava: will make one learned in Vedas, Agamas etc., a preceptor by king’s appointment, will be bestowed with great beauty and will be much sought after by one and all.

Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 3rd Bhava: will have strong body, be not proud, will visit shrines, will donate liberally, be very valorous and be dear to his own men.

Mangal, Budh, Śukr in the 3rd Bhava: will have all happiness and pleasures, be dear to women, be truthful, be great, will perform royal duty and be free from greed.

Mangal, Budh, Śani in the 3rd Bhava: will be happy and prosperous, be endowed with wealth, horses, elephants etc., will be very kind and firmly disposed.

Mangal, Guru, Śukr in the 3rd Bhava: will have chiefly sons, be pure being truthful, be skilful in speech, fearless and be liked by many.

Mangal, Guru, Śani in the 3rd Bhava: will acquire gold, be righteous, be an agriculturist, will acquire quadrupeds, be very attractive and will always speak truth.

Mangal, Śukr, Śani in the 3rd Bhava: will be very valorous, be modest, righteous, firm and happy with sons.

Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 3rd Bhava: will be timid in nature, be won by enemies, ignorant, or illusioned and will suffer from diseases, like itch (and other skin diseases)

Budh, Guru, Śani in the 3rd Bhava: will donate prominently, be free from afflictions, learned in Śāstras, prosperous, will work with modesty and will be very proud.

Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 3rd Bhava: the native will be a liar, wicked and related to other women illegally.

Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 3rd Bhava: will respect sages, (or wise men) be learned in Vedas etc., interested in singing, be not sinful, be interested in women’s wealth, be prosperous, will locate hidden treasures, be dear to young women and will be firm in friendship.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh in the 3rd Bhava: will acquire plenty of riches, be very efficacious, will like those, who have an attractive physique and be interested in good deeds and principles.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Guru in the 3rd Bhava: will be truthful, will win over enemies, will be egoistic and will win many friends out of his eloquence.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Śukr in the 3rd Bhava: will be chief among the cousins, will earn a number of friends, be dear to virtuous people and will respect his teachers.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Śani in the 3rd Bhava: will be skilful in learning, be the head of a town, will own many villages and quadrupeds and be worshipped by the king.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Guru in the 3rd Bhava: will be attached to elders, be friendly to virtuous people, will have many assignments and will respect Brahmins.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Śukr in the 3rd Bhava: will be endowed with quadrupeds, robes, food etc., be famous and be happy with sons.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Śani in the 3rd Bhava: will be modest, be interested in gardens wills, trees etc., will continue to have acquisition of wealth and be pious.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 3rd Bhava: will be a king, be splendourous, be very chief among men, will have faith in Śāstras and be always kindly disposed.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Śukr in the 3rd Bhava: will possess superior diamonds, will acquire sons and wealth, will be successful and will conquer his enemies.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Śani in the 3rd Bhava: will be famous, will always wed success, will lend help to animals, be beautiful, will conquer his senses and be virtuous.

Sūrya, Mangal, Guru, Śukr in the 3rd Bhava: will be highly placed among his own men, wealthy, enthusiastic and valorous.

Sūrya, Mangal, Guru, Śani in the 3rd Bhava: will possess highly good qualities, will be endowed with beauty, learning, wealth and justice, be very efficacious and be free from vices.

Sūrya, Mangal, Śukr, Śani in the 3rd Bhava: will be intelligent, will possess an auspicious physique, be attached to those born in supreme race, will be highly praised and dear to his people.

Sūrya, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 3rd Bhava: will worship the Almighty and Brahmins, be not attached to anything, be famous for his wisdom and will have good sons.

Sūrya, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 3rd Bhava: will be interested in making friendship with good people, will have knowledge of philosophy and be famous for his Śāstraic learning.

Sūrya, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 3rd Bhava: will have servants, be learned in Śāstras, be endowed with virtues and justice and will be worshipped by the king.

Sūrya, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 3rd Bhava: will have many sons, be famous, very learned, be free from afflictions and will own elephants.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 3rd Bhava: will be wicked, immodest, given to much anger and will be bad in nature.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śukr in the 3rd Bhava: will not have common sense, will be bereft of sons and relatives, be interested in war and will promote quarrels.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śani in the 3rd Bhava: will be inspired with love, be not virtuous, be lazy, unkind and interested in adventures.

Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śukr in the 3rd Bhava: be not splendourous, will not have intelligence and prosperity, will be greedy and will always suffer afflictions.

Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śani in the 3rd Bhava: will be attached to people in the town, will have good behaviour, be highly respected, be interested in eating flesh, be truthful and wealthy.

Candr, Mangal, Śukr, Śani in the 3rd Bhava: will have bad disposition, be fickle minded, will suffer from penury and be interested in living in foreign countries.

Candr, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 3rd Bhava: will be worried, will have desires, be not proficient, will have a dejected wife and will destroy his place.

Candr, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 3rd Bhava: will be deprived of wife and horses (i.e. conveyances), will suffer from excess of wind and phlegm, will spend on bad missions and be enthusiastic in committing sinful acts.

Candr, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 3rd Bhava: will not have good history, will be devoid of noble aims, be deprived of his own men, be not learned and will be friendly.

Candr, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 3rd Bhava: will hate Brahmins, will consume intoxicants, will be very base in disposition and be dirty.

Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 3rd Bhava: will be happy, will have many sons, be truthful, be very rich, will win over his senses and be not virtuous.

Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 3rd Bhava: will consider money supreme, will become virtuous by giving donations, be attached to people and Śāstras.

Mangal, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 3rd Bhava: will be very truthful, be interested in observing the requirements laid down for his own caste, be very famous, be dear to guests and be praised by his relatives.

Mangal, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 3rd Bhava: will possess a beautiful body, be wicked, be not sinful and be rich.

Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 3rd Bhava: will be wicked, be sinful, ungrateful, not virtuous and be unjust.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 3rd Bhava: will be very rich, will be bestowed with sons, will be beautiful, dear to this wife and will have pleasing appearance.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śukr in the 3rd Bhava: will be a great man, will be very famous in performing yagnas, will hold the flag of virtue alot, will be helpful to living beings and will be a chief.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śani in the 3rd Bhava: will be a scholar, be interested in maintaining self respect, will enjoy abundant pleasures, will be virtuous and also a singer.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śani in the 3rd Bhava: will eat crabs, will be very wicked, will respect gods and Brahmins and will know his duties.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Śukr, Śani in the 3rd Bhava: will not perform worships (due, as routine), will control his enemies’pride, will give importance to friends and will be very shy.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 3rd Bhava: will be kindly disposed, sill perform such acts, that will bring fame, be grateful, be dear to the virtuous and to his own men.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 3rd Bhava: will be favourable to guests, will respect God and men and will possess good disposition.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 3rd Bhava: will be successful in undertakings, will consider money, as important, will enjoy robes and jewels and be beautiful.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 3rd Bhava: will possess scented articles and robes, will have knowledge of Śāstras, be famous and will be happy with an extremely virtuous wife.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 3rd Bhava: will be interested in good qualities, be famous, amiable to all, intent on giving gifts and will not be attached to anything.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 3rd Bhava: will have truth, as the foremost aim, be justly disposed, will donate, be very patient and will be dear to Brahmins.

Sūrya, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 3rd Bhava: will be free from (unnecessary) expenses, will have pure mind, be skilful and will not have firm sexual feelings.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 3rd Bhava: will be fierce, interested in stories related to sex, be grateful and unenthusiastic.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 3rd Bhava: will have wicked disposition, will suffer from heavy thirst, will spend a lot and will hate Śāstras.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 3rd Bhava: will have blemishes, will respect God and Brahmins, be sinful and will be troubled by sexual feelings.

Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 3rd Bhava: will not be enthusiastic, be wicked, very cunning and be not splendourous, adverse to sex feelings.

Candr, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 3rd Bhava: will be interested in mean people, will be bad in disposition and will desire to have his children in big families.

Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 3rd Bhava: will have wonderful appearance and jewels, will be beautiful, be interested in singing and be virtuous.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 3rd Bhava: will be expert in gandharva vedas, will have an auspicious face, beautiful eyes and pleasing looks (appearance).

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 3rd Bhava: will have the opportunity to visit shrines and the native will live in forests and hills.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 3rd Bhava: will be dear to great people and to virtuous Brahmins.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 3rd Bhava: will be endowed with riches, be skilful in justice and will have an attractive face.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 3rd Bhava: will be subject to diseases of head and mind, will live in foreign countries, or deserted places.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 3rd Bhava: will be wealthy, will conquer five senses and be without propitiousness.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 3rd Bhava: will be successful, skilful, be very propitious, or lucky and famous.

4th
Sūrya, Candr in the 4th Bhava: will be bereft of happiness and pleasures, be subject to perils, will be able to guess others’ thinking, be not splendourous and not friendly.

Sūrya, Mangal in the 4th Bhava: will suffer bloody and windy diseases, be not propitious/lucky, be subjected to troubles and given to anger.

Sūrya, Budh in the 4th Bhava: will suffer from windy and phlegmatic diseases, will have few sons, be insulted by enemies, attached to wicked people and interested in his own country.

Sūrya, Guru in the 4th Bhava: will be sinful, be devoid of wealth, be assumed in, or of false disposition be highly phlegmatic and be ill-tempered.

Sūrya, Śukr in the 4th Bhava: will be very much addicted to intoxication, be subjected physical ailments, be cruel and fickle minded.

Sūrya, Śani in the 4th Bhava: will be troubled by Gods, be very ill-tempered, be interested in promoting quarrels, be devoid of shame and be dullwitted.

Candr, Mangal in the 4th Bhava: will have few sons, be impatient, be interested in others’ wives, dear to people and be forsaking by his own children.

Candr, Budh: will be very truthful, be clear in speech, be very wise, be dear to people and be supreme among the beings.

Candr, Guru: will have knowledge of politics, be beautiful, very garrulous, dear to king, kind and will respect Gods and preceptors.

Candr, Śukr: will be a great man, will have large hands, will be very happy by having many a friend and many a son, be chief among the men of his race and be ever modest.

Candr, Śani in the 4th Bhava: will always be sick, be hard-hearted, be blameworthy, ungrateful and interested in other countries.

Mangal, Budh in the 4th Bhava: will have wounded physique, will steal women, be a drunkard, a gambler and be attached to none.

Mangal, Guru in the 4th Bhava: will be successful, poor, akin to cupid, interested in sins, forsaken by his relatives and will have penchant for arts.

Mangal, Śani in the 4th Bhava: will be subjected to much grief, will expend on bad means, be unfriendly, will perform mean acts and will talk unnecessarily.

Budh, Guru in the 4th Bhava: will be very happy, very kind hearted, will perform such acts, as to bring fame, be patient and worshipped by the king.

Budh, Śukr in the 4th Bhava: will be dear to the king, be equal to the king and be a minister, or chief of army.

Budh, Śani in the 4th Bhava: will be won over by enemies, be short of blood, be sick and will suffer from fever.

Guru, Śukr in the 4th Bhava: will have wealth in plenty, will be endowed with gold, pearls and sons, will be faithful to religion and interested in shrines etc.

Guru, Śani in the 4th Bhava: It produces a cook, or a potter, or an artisan.

Śukr, Śani in the 4th Bhava: will have less happiness, will be devoid of tongue, will have dejected friends, be timid and will cheat others.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal in the 4th Bhava: will not be able to achieve success in his aim, will have foul smell in mouth, be devoid of intelligence, be fierce, be troubled by phlegm and be subjected to miseries.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh in the 4th Bhava: will be devoid of good qualities, will have hands devoid of much splendour, will be ungreatful and will be happy with the money earned through very hard labour.

Sūrya, Candr, Guru in the 4th Bhava: will be interested in indulging in bad acts causing difficulties, be sick, be addicted to vices, be subjected to penury and be devoid of wisdom and wealth.

Sūrya, Candr, Śukr in the 4th Bhava: will always be attached to his wife, be given to anger, will indulge in mean acts, will be insulted by others and be not just.

Sūrya, Candr, Śani in the 4th Bhava: will be highly rheumatic (windy), be fierce, be devoid and respect for Gods and preceptors, will befriend many bad elements and be bad in mentally.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh in the 4th Bhava: will be fierce in disposition, will be interested in others’ money, will forsake his family, be bad in mentality, will wed a barren lady and will hate Śāstras.

Sūrya, Mangal, Guru in the 4th Bhava: will be devoid of parents, relatives, character, splendour and sexual feelings, be attached to mean people and hard-hearted.

Sūrya, Mangal, Śukr in the 4th Bhava: will be primarily happy, will have a large army, be interested in Śāstras and Puranas, be ill-disposed and be timid.

Sūrya, Mangal, Śani in the 4th Bhava: will be subjected to various worries, be devoid of shame, be indolent (be dull-witted, as per Balabhadra), be short-lived and just.

Sūrya, Budh, Guru in the 4th Bhava: will be honoured, grieved, attached to bad people, be a miser, will be very much happy and be troubled by enemies.

Sūrya, Budh, Śukr in the 4th Bhava: will be interested in sins, bad in disposition, will be troubled due to excessive phlegm, be shameless, will have bad nails and be ungrateful.

Sūrya, Budh, Śani in the 4th Bhava: will be devoid of good history, will be troubled by friendship with bad elements and be wicked.

Sūrya, Guru, Śukr in the 4th Bhava: will be endowed with wife, children and wealth. He will suffer from eye diseases. He will be intelligent.

Sūrya, Guru, Śani in the 4th Bhava: will be interested in other’s money, will forsake truth, be hard-hearted and will be devoid of wisdom, wealth and justice due to curse.

Sūrya, Śukr, Śani in the 4th Bhava: will be forsaken by friends, will not be good-looking, will be endowed with wife, will have excess of deficiency of a limb and be not virtuous.

Candr, Mangal, Budh in the 4th Bhava: will acquire learning, be virtuous, be very happy, will conquer his senses and will be insulted by wicked people.

Candr, Mangal, Guru in the 4th Bhava: will enjoy all kinds of happiness, be honoured by kings and own relatives and be endowed with quadrupeds.

Candr, Mangal, Śukr in the 4th Bhava: will have wicked sons and wandering nature.

Candr, Mangal, Śani in the 4th Bhava: will be free from committing sinful acts, be interested in Śāstraic knowledge, be tactful, be a powerful speaker and will earn much.

Candr, Budh, Guru in the 4th Bhava: will be a king, will be free from diseases, will have many kinds of horses, be given to anger, will be very efficacious and will conquer his enemies.

Candr, Budh, Śukr in the 4th Bhava: will be endowed with great lordship, will be famous because of his great wife, be kind and be interested in good people.

Candr, Budh, Śani in the 4th Bhava: will be endowed with great lordship, sill be a great personage, be chief in his lineage and will be brought up affectionately by his parents.

Candr, Guru, Śukr in the 4th Bhava: will have wisdom, learning, skilful sons and expertise in arts.

Candr, Guru, Śani in the 4th Bhava: will be famous, interested in comforts, be free from sickness, will have good heart, will have sons, who will be endowed with various riches and be a lord.

Candr, Śukr, Śani in the 4th Bhava: will be notably courageous, will enjoy the company of a good girl among relatives and will earn wonderful things through king’s patronage.

Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 4th Bhava: will enjoy happiness through sons, be an agriculturist, be endowed with fame, valour etc. and will be attached to his guests and Brahmins.

Mangal, Budh, Śukr in the 4th Bhava: will grow various varieties of crops, will have many quadrupeds and will have a number of relatives.

Mangal, Budh, Śani in the 4th Bhava: will be very greedy, be bereft of friends, be interested in others’ wives, be hard hearted and be always dirty.

Mangal, Guru, Śukr in the 4th Bhava: will always have good disposition, will visit sacred places, will be endowed with much fame and much valour, be chief among the members of his lineage and will have auspicious and fully grown body.

Mangal, Guru, Śani in the 4th Bhava: will have good qualities, will have less earnings and less happiness, will be a servant and a will-wisher of the king.

Mangal, Śukr, Śani in the 4th Bhava: will be wicked in disposition, be against good people, be very ill- tempered and hard-hearted.

Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 4th Bhava: will lord over the earth, be devoid of enemies, will have sons, be virtuous in disposition and will have pleasing looks.

Budh, Guru, Śani in the 4th Bhava: will be a befitting groom, will have knowledge of Mantras and will give liberal gifts to preceptors and relatives.

Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 4th Bhava: will perform his duties, will be a merchant, be patient, be interested in giving donations and be pure.

Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 4th Bhava: will be a repository of fame, will have religious initiation, be interested in the duties of the elders, will have an auspicious face and be chief among men.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh in the 4th Bhava: will be bereft of wisdom, be insulted by others, be forsaken by his own people, be unkind and timid.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Guru in the 4th Bhava: will be devoid of good qualities, will give up his children, be fearful, will not have good history and be not happy.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Śukr in the 4th Bhava: will be devoid of friends, money and beauty, will be conquered by others and will be mindless.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Śani in the 4th Bhava: will be unkind, be a thief, be fierce and interested in promoting quarrels.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Guru in the 4th Bhava: will be very inquisitive, be troubled by sexual feelings, will be devoid of good qualities and will be of low caste.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Śukr in the 4th Bhava: will look ugly, will not be friendly, will not have hair on the limbs (i. e. on chest, arms, knees etc.) and will always be interested in living in foreign countries.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Śani in the 4th Bhava: will not have any aims will be a thief, will be interested in females belonging to others, will take to very mean professions and will be bad disposition.

Sūrya, Candr, Guru, Śukr in the 4th Bhava: will lose his attention, will be interested in promoting quarrels, will be harsh in speech, will be ugly in appearance and will wear rags.

Sūrya, Candr, Guru, Śani in the 4th Bhava: will live in bad countries, will be cheated by women, be interested in prostitutes and be unkind.

Sūrya, Candr, Śukr, Śani in the 4th Bhava: will be interested in good justice, will like to gamble, will lose wealth, be ugly and connected with bad deeds.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Śukr in the 4th Bhava: will be troubled by hunger, weapons and diseases and be excessively windy.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Śani in the 4th Bhava: will have fierce eyes, will be night blind, be interested in husbandry and be sinful.

Sūrya, Mangal, Guru, Śukr in the 4th Bhava: will be of untruthful disposition, will not be patient and be garrulous.

Sūrya, Mangal, Guru, Śani in the 4th Bhava: will not have good nature, will wear rags, be not friendly, will behave, like a wise man, will have evils.

Sūrya, Mangal, Śukr, Śani in the 4th Bhava: will acquire a wife, will be insulted by others, will have a wounded physique, will cause nuisance to public and will always have enemies.

Sūrya, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 4th Bhava: will always be an employer, will be served by many attendants, will do liberal acts and be fearless in disposition.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 4th Bhava:

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śukr in the 4th Bhava: will be timid in nature, truthful, kind respectful to Brahmins and will like virtues.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śani in the 4th Bhava: will be devoted to others, will have numerous workmen, be widely famous, very wealthy and be dear to people.

Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śukr in the 4th Bhava: will be very surprisingly bold, will be endowed with wealth of passion and be attached to good men.

Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śani in the 4th Bhava: will be endowed with virtues, will feel happy to serve virtuous men, will perform auspicious acts and will have wisdom, as his pride.

Candr, Mangal, Śukr, Śani in the 4th Bhava: will be respectful to Brahmins, be enthusiastic, be interested in virtues, be liked by women and will be famous for his efficacy.

Candr, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 4th Bhava: will be highly bashful, be interested in his duty, be of truthful disposition and will be attached to those, who perform penance.

Candr, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 4th Bhava: will help Brahmins, will help others, will not be attached to anything, will enjoy good fame and will be successful in arguments.

Candr, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 4th Bhava: will have many sons, will be liked by women, be free from blemish, will be happy with wisdom and wealth and be a lord.

Candr, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 4th Bhava: will be interested in earning money through merchandising (i.e. business in general), be famous and be always endowed with mental vigour.

Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 4th Bhava: will be endowed with extremely merciful tendency, be devoid of sex feelings, will speak clearly (eloquently), will be justly disposed and respectful, or honourable.

Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 4th Bhava: will have respect for his preceptors, will not spend (unnecessarily), will be very wealthy, will be very respectable and be a lord.

Mangal, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 4th Bhava: will be an astrologer, will be very much interested in gathering Śāstraic knowledge, be very wise and will have plenty of food of his liking.

Mangal, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 4th Bhava: will have liking to learn about the Supreme Spirit, be devoid of sins, will speak truth and will be known in royal circle.

Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 4th Bhava: will play musical instruments, will be very kind and will be bold in rendering to help others.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 4th Bhava: will be ignoble, be troubled by diseases of private parts, be ungrateful, will have prominent belly and be devoid of moustache.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śukr in the 4th Bhava: will be devoid of religious conduct, be interested in sexual affairs, be very sickly, will not trust others and be fickle-minded.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śani in the 4th Bhava: will be highly greedy, will be patriotic, will lack courtesy and will always be devoid of wealth.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śukr in the 4th Bhava: will be interested in sword-flight, will reveal pride in face, be shameless and will lack masculine vigour.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śani in the 4th Bhava: will have declined wealth due to many enemies, will always intend to make enmity and will be unkind.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Śukr, Śani in the 4th Bhava: will be always subjected to troubles, be devoid of virtues, will belong to a low caste and will “imprison” others.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 4th Bhava: will act slowly after thinking properly, will have more enemies, will have beautiful hair and be devoid of efficacy.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 4th Bhava: will have many blemishes, will suffer from tuberculosis, be not splendourous and will lose friends.

Sūrya, Candr, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 4th Bhava: will be devoid of wealth, will suffer grief on account of issue, will be very mean and fickleminded.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 4th Bhava: will be very sickly will be troubled by kings, will always be subjected to grief and will have vices.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 4th Bhava: will experience much miseries, will have unafflicted limbs, will promote quarrels and be firm in blaming.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 4th Bhava: will be discarded by Brahmins, will follow religious observations, will be interested in bad acts and will always suffer from penury.

Sūrya, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 4th Bhava: will give up his own religion and follow that of others, will be devoid of good character and good disposition.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 4th Bhava: will be endowed with great happiness and great wealth, will talk tactfully, be not learned and will be dear to people.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 4th Bhava: will be interested in consecration, religious observations, bathing etc., will be of superior disposition and be expert in justice.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 4th Bhava: will possess high splendour and Śāstraic wisdom, will be honoured, be patient and will respect Gods and preceptors.

Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 4th Bhava: will be very kind, be interested in Śāstras, be virtuous and wear Lapis Lazuli (i.e. cat’s eye) etc.

Candr, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 4th Bhava: will be honoured by kings.

Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 4th Bhava: will be with good men, will be great himself, be courageous, be a poet and be amicable to relatives.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 4th Bhava: will wear rags, be devoid of friendship, be very short-tempered, will have (more) daughters (than sons) and will always partake in an assembly.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 4th Bhava: will be very illusioned, will divert his mind to sinful acts, be ungrateful, shameless and lazy.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 4th Bhava: will like meat, will be interested in bad deeds, be wicked and will not believe in Śāstras.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 4th Bhava: will be happy, untruthful, troubled and will suffer miseries on account of his bad deeds.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 4th Bhava: will not be interested in tales, will be interested in very bad people, will be impatient and be adverse to Vedas.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 4th Bhava: will depend on many, will be interested in visiting shrines, be industrious will possess good qualities, be truthful and kind.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 4th Bhava: will be highly truthful, will eat quality food, be a king, be jealous and will honour his preceptors.

5th
Sūrya, Candr in the 5th Bhava: will not be egoistic, will be hump-backed, be dejected, will have evil sons, will always be subjected to much miseries and will be of bad disposition.

Sūrya, Mangal in the 5th Bhava: will have many sons and plurality of wives, will be accessible to enemies, be cruel, fearful and will always be interested in sins.

Sūrya, Budh in the 5th Bhava: will be interested in committing much sinful acts, will have all kinds of afflictions, be cruel, be forsaken by his wife and will be prone to evils.

Sūrya, Guru in the 5th Bhava: will be devoid of knowledge of Vedas, will eat others’ food, be attached to others’ wives, be very hard in disposition and be devoid of good qualities.

Sūrya, Śukr in the 5th Bhava: will be bereft of good qualities and vigour, will be miserable, conquered by enemies, will be troubled by weakness, be disinterested in Śāstras and will be of bad mentality.

Sūrya, Śani in the 5th Bhava: will sell articles, be grateful, interested in being virtuous, will be happy with wife and sons and will be ever plentiful.

Candr, Mangal in the 5th Bhava: will be very happy, be learned and will believe in God and confide in preceptors.

Candr, Budh: will be honoured, be youthful in appearance, will beget many sons and will respect Gods and preceptors.

Candr, Guru: will be wounded, be favourable to Śāstras, be happy by nature, be a Lord and will utter prayers in an undertone.

Candr, Śukr: will be endowed with treasures and wisdom, will always be happy, will have more daughters and be dear to his wife.

Candr, Śani: will be devoid of issue and happiness, be of worldly disposition, be of bad mind and will be rejected, as per Śāstraic terms.

Mangal, Budh in the 5th Bhava: will be modest, will incur losses due to illusion regarding agricultural, be cruel, be interested in living in foreign countries and will adopt relatives and sons.

Mangal, Śukr: will earn more enemies, be always insulted by mean people, be illusioned and will disrespect Brahmins.

Mangal, Śani in the 5th Bhava: will have wounded limbs, be won over by ladies, be wicked, ungrateful, impatient and be not wealthy.

Budh, Guru in the 5th Bhava: will have many sons, be desirous, of success, be dear to women (or wife), be pleasing in appearance, be dutiful and be not greedy.

Budh, Śukr in the 5th Bhava: will have auspicious speech, be interested in surprising acts, be respectful to Brahmins, be skilful and be resolute.

Budh, Śani in the 5th Bhava: will have a defective limb, be not happy, be cruel and will be naturally inauspicious.

Guru, Śukr in the 5th Bhava: will be very fortunate, be chief among his men, will have many sons, be wealthy and happy.

Guru, Śani in the 5th Bhava: will be very fortunate, be not good, be friendly to bad people, be interested in intoxicant drinks, will wear rags, be not praiseworthy and will indulge in unholy acts.

Śukr, Śani in the 5th Bhava: will have daughters, will be addicted to females, will be interested in sinful tales, be ungrateful, be ugly and be not praiseworthy.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal in the 5th Bhava: will be endowed with fame, be devoid of good deeds, will be of loathsome disposition and will acquire physical deformity due to self-made activities.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh in the 5th Bhava: will be very sinful, be deprived of his property, be relieved of his sons, be devoid of happiness, be won over by his wife and be fickle-minded.

Sūrya, Candr, Guru in the 5th Bhava: will be devoid of sons, be very valorous, be learned, will perform good deeds, be very kind and will not be friendly.

Sūrya, Candr, Śukr in the 5th Bhava: will not have good qualities, will be interested in others’ money, will have more enemies and be without kindness and patience.

Sūrya, Candr, Śani in the 5th Bhava: will be devoid of wealth, mental worries and fear, will create nuisance to the people in the world, will be addicted to vices, will be endowed with sons and be not favourable to relatives.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh in the 5th Bhava: will be troubled by severe wounds, be devoid of friendship, will be kind, poor, will be bereft of freedom and can guess others’ matters.

Sūrya, Mangal, Guru in the 5th Bhava: will accompany base people, be very sinful, be disabled, dejected, unable to donate, will hate his wife and be devoid of manliness.

Sūrya, Mangal, Śukr in the 5th Bhava: will be devoid of ornaments, will eat much, will hate people and will be refused by them and will be hard-hearted.

Sūrya, Mangal, Śani in the 5th Bhava: will have sinful sons and daughters, will not be materialistic, will have sons bereft of education and will hate good people.

Sūrya, Budh, Guru in the 5th Bhava: will have sinful sons, will be given to anger, be impotent, be very sinful, will respect Brahmins, be miserable and will have miserable friends.

Sūrya, Budh, Śukr: will have barren daughter, be ungrateful, will have many wives, be subjected to grief, be sinful and be bereft of happiness, money and food.

Sūrya, Budh, Śani: will not have children and money, will have prominent belly, prominent buttocks, long knees and small feet.

Sūrya, Guru, Śukr in the 5th Bhava: will be uncharitably disposed, will cheat others, be cunning, will indulge in jugglery and will be prone to hurt by arrows.

Sūrya, Guru, Śani in the 5th Bhava: will be forsaken by his relatives, be troubled by poverty, be interested in quarrels and be fearless.

Sūrya, Śukr, Śani in the 5th Bhava: will not be courageous, will be wicked, be a dunce and be interested in foreign countries.

Candr, Mangal, Budh in the 5th Bhava: will not be bold, be not masculine, will not have charitable mind, be interested in gambling and sexual pleasures.

Candr, Mangal, Guru in the 5th Bhava: will be timid, be wealthy, be short-tempered, will spend in bad ways, be attached to his relatives, be not wise and be very proud.

Candr, Mangal, Śukr in the 5th Bhava: will be in the company of base people, be not beautiful, will suffer from rheumatic pains, be not famous and will be rejected by people.

Candr, Mangal, Śani in the 5th Bhava: will be untruthful, be not wealthy, be not happy, will sleep much, will have ugly friends, be wicked and fearless.

Candr, Budh, Guru in the 5th Bhava: will be interested in visiting shrines, will have good qualities, be virtuous and will respect his parents.

Candr, Budh, Śukr in the 5th Bhava: will have stout limbs, will not be freedy, will be attached to others, will be relieved of sins by visiting shrines and will be worthy.

Candr, Budh, Śani in the 5th Bhava: will be meritorious, famous, firm and charitable, will have knowledge, or arts and be devoid of desires.

Candr, Guru, Śukr in the 5th Bhava: will have pleasing voice, will have hair touching the foreface, be charitable, be devoid of enemies and will have pleasing looks.

Candr, Guru, Śani in the 5th Bhava: will be wise and famous, will be an expert poet, be devoid of enemies, be very happy, be of good disposition and will have beautiful face.

Candr, Śukr, Śani in the 5th Bhava: will have good qualities and good nature, will be an astrologer, will maintain his physique beautifully, will be lustful and interested in listening to religious accounts.

Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 5th Bhava: will hold the “flag of charity” aloft (i.e. will be highly charitable and will say “no” to none, as karna, or Maha Bharata). will be truthful and will maintain only truth, will be very intelligent, be bashful, enthusiastic and courageous.

Mangal, Budh, Śukr in the 5th Bhava: will be bestowed with luck, will be devoid of mental peace, be charitable, be favourable to good people and endowed with gold, robes and ornaments.

Mangal, Budh, Śani in the 5th Bhava: will not have wife, be unkind, will not possess good qualities and will be with relatives.

Mangal, Guru, Śukr in the 5th Bhava: will have good disposition, will be endowed with thin clothes and ornaments, will be an acknowledged person and will conquer enemies.

Mangal, Guru, Śani in the 5th Bhava: will be kind, will know business tactics, will have knowledge of Vedas, will be friendly to good people, be patient and will respect God and teachers.

Mangal, Śukr, Śani in the 5th Bhava: will be wicked, be shameless, be unjust, will forsake his wife and will be very proud.

Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 5th Bhava: will be endowed with precious stones, will respect Brahmins, will have knowledge of many Śāstras and will make his own place, as heavens.

Budh, Guru, Śani in the 5th Bhava: will respect teachers, will learn great things, will be chief in his lineage and will attain good friends.

Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 5th Bhava: will be bereft of children, will have fat body, fat neck, fat shoulders and thin ears, will gamble and cheat others.

Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 5th Bhava: will possess highly good qualities, will be endowed with corns, will live in others’ houses and be interested in learning Śāstras.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh in the 5th Bhava: will blame the dearest, will be against his elders, will be unprincipled, be shameless and be of bad disposition.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Guru in the 5th Bhava: will be bereft of sons, be immodest, indigent and be devoid of kindness and virtues.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Śukr in the 5th Bhava: will have long penes, itchy thighs, be poor and interested in others’ wives.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Śani in the 5th Bhava: will be ungrateful, be happy, will enjoy authority, will have mean profession and be devoid relatives.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Guru in the 5th Bhava: will be very happy, will be subjected to sexual pressure and belongs to noble lineage, but will be unjust.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Śukr in the 5th Bhava: will be a tale-bearer, will give up his religion and will hate the virtuous.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Śani in the 5th Bhava: will be unkind, unintelligible, be not proud, will possess ornaments and be in the company of sinners.

Sūrya, Candr, Guru, Śukr in the 5th Bhava: will be interested in chariots (i.e. conveyances), be immodest and will like bathing with application of scents etc. (i.e. the native will enjoy rich bathing conveniences, like modern appliances, costly soaps, oils, cream etc.)

Sūrya, Candr, Guru, Śani in the 5th Bhava: will be happy, will make futile efforts, be devoid of friends and sons, be dear and will perform wicked acts.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 5th Bhava: will not be splendourous, will perform condemnable acts, will have vary many profession and be highly ill-tempered.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Śukr in the 5th Bhava: will give up his duties, be unjust, dull, indolent and will like ugly people.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Śani in the 5th Bhava: will be bereft of strength, be a thief, be interested in sexual stories, will serve others and be devoid of courage.

Sūrya, Mangal, Guru, Śukr in the 5th Bhava: will be miserable on account of wounds, be not virtuous and will always perform against Śāstras.

Sūrya, Mangal, Guru, Śani in the 5th Bhava: will have revolutionary thinking, will be troubled by serious diseases, will not have intelligence, be not virtuous and be without ears.

Sūrya, Mangal, Śukr, Śani in the 5th Bhava: will have defective arm., will not be interested in materials donated for performance of shati etc. and be subjected to vices.

Sūrya, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 5th Bhava: will be infamous, be not efficacious, be in the company of sinners and be hasty.

Sūrya, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 5th Bhava: will perform blame worthy acts, will be interested in bad females and in serving bad people, be not famous, be unkind and will hate Brahmins.

Sūrya, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 5th Bhava: will be insulted by others, will wear rags, will be impure, will have untimely food and will be troubled by poverty at all times.

Sūrya, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 5th Bhava: will be devoid of interest in meritorious acts, will not be intelligent, be interested in studying unworthy books and be impartial.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 5th Bhava: will be wise, learned, interested in Vedas etc., will conquer his enemies and will be of friendly disposition.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śukr in the 5th Bhava: will be fortunate, learned, modest and will be skilful.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śani in the 5th Bhava: will be immodest, will be interested in his own religion, will be courageous, charitable and highly respectable.

Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śukr in the 5th Bhava: will have wounds (itches etc.), will protect Brahmins, be of good qualities and be famous for self respect.

Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śani in the 5th Bhava: will like cold things, will know the meaning of various Śāstras, will be proud, be a poet and be liked by people.

Candr, Mangal, Śukr, Śani in the 5th Bhava: will help people, will befriend many, will have various ornaments, be patient and will be connected with religious activities.

Candr, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 5th Bhava: will be endowed with sons and wealth, will be rich with application of sandal, saffron etc. and robes and ornaments, will have abundant riches and will enjoy happiness through children.

Candr, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 5th Bhava: will uphold truth, be modest, will be very charitable and be honoured by the learned.

Candr, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 5th Bhava: will be broad minded, will conquer his five senses, will like cleanliness, be good-looking, be endowed with fortune and courage and be not greedy.

Candr, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 5th Bhava: will be worshipped by kings, will be interested in Śāstras and religion and be endowed with sons and wealth.

Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 5th Bhava: will have knowledge of the Supreme Spirit, will have satisfied mind and be dear to king.

Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 5th Bhava: will have beautiful body, be free from desires, will have principles, be chief in his lineage, be intelligent and pure.

Mangal, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 5th Bhava: will be broad minded, will observe virtues, be expert in father’s assignments, be patient and will like all people.

Mangal, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 5th Bhava: will be good in arts, will know the meanings of Vedas, will have quadrupeds, be very pure and famous.

Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 5th Bhava: will have abundant wealth, learning and virtues.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 5th Bhava: will have ugly and dirty physique, will be endowed with children and suffer from many blemishes.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śukr in the 5th Bhava: will be sexually passionate, will have knowledge of mathematics and will be troubled by serious diseases.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śani in the 5th Bhava: will be eunuch, will have no knowledge of letters (i.e. illiterate), be devoid of vedic and Śāstraic learning, be hard-hearted and be not virtuous.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śukr in the 5th Bhava: be devoid of Lakshmi, be very short tempered, will wander in vain and will possess relatives.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śani in the 5th Bhava: will be interested in befriending bad people, will have external show, or courtesy, will not have good history and be bereft of truth and honour.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Śukr, Śani in the 5th Bhava: will be devoid of relatives, sons, wealth and happiness, be interested in gambling and be inimical.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 5th Bhava: will have a wife bereft of good character, will be forsaken by his relatives, will be perished by Gods and Brahmins and be impatient.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 5th Bhava: will be of bad disposition, be forsaken by his relatives and will be inimically disposed to good people.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 5th Bhava: will spend on bad deeds, will have self-made evils, will be troubled by expenses, be unkind and be interested in sinful acts.

Sūrya, Candr, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 5th Bhava: will be devoid of wealth, sons, honour and splendour and be subjected to misery.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 5th Bhava: will suffer from marital blemish, be sick and timid will make futile efforts.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 5th Bhava: will be a dunce, be forsaken by his wife, will be of pleased disposition and will fear war, or quarrels.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 5th Bhava: will be shameless, will win over good people, will lose his father, be a drunkard and be ungrateful.

Sūrya, Mangal, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 5th Bhava: will suffer from diseases of head, will have wounds on the body and be devoid of wealth and honour.

Sūrya, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 5th Bhava: will suffer from diseases of eye, be given to severe anger, be ugly and will always wear rags.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 5th Bhava: will not be enthusiastic, be very wicked and will face evils by unnecessary talks.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 5th Bhava: will be very valorous, be free from vices, be a lord, be respectable, will be endowed with sons and wealth, will conquer his five senses and be famous.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 5th Bhava: will be wicked, be beyond assessment, will have abundant wealth and be affectionate to his children.

Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 5th Bhava: will be an expert in minerals, mercury and water equipment and will become famous in such dealings.

Candr, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 5th Bhava: will be widely famous, be chief among his relatives and race-men, be modest will be endowed with ornaments and will control his mind greatly.

Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 5th Bhava: will be and eloquent speaker, be modest and be endowed with mercy, charitability and truth.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 5th Bhava: will be subjected to penury and grief, be mean minded, be of thieving disposition and be rash in speech.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 5th Bhava: will be chief in his race, be inimically disposed to the public, will possess much distressed a body and be forsaken by his relatives.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 5th Bhava: will honour guests, will have broad and beautiful eyes, will practice penance and be justly disposed.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 5th Bhava: will be devoid of kindness, will live in foreign places and will be able to guess others’ mind.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 5th Bhava: will be cruel, wicked, be devoid of wicked people’s company and be attached to sons, friends and meritorious acts.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 5th Bhava: will not be efficacious, will hate women, will lose wealth and will be honoured by enemies (i.e. will not be troubled by them).

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 5th Bhava: will be highly interested in the Supreme Spirit, be chief, wealthy and amiable to relatives.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 5th Bhava: will be interested in the knowledge of the Supreme Spirit, be dear to his relatives, be happy, skilful in all arts and be a heard.

6th
Sūrya, Candr: will have ugly face, be poor, short-lived, will suffer from diseases, will always have desires and will be free from enemies.

Sūrya, Mangal in the 6th Bhava: will be highly intelligent, will destroy enemies, will attain success in war and will enjoy wide fame.

Sūrya, Budh in the 6th Bhava: will be endowed with great riches, be famous for his abundant wealth, be fearless and dear to king.

Sūrya, Guru in the 6th Bhava: will be sickly disposed, short-lived, will have more enemies and be devoid of friends.

Sūrya, Śukr in the 6th Bhava: will be troubled by serious diseases, be shameless, be devoid of wealth, be ugly, subjected to utter misery and will be worried.

Sūrya, Śani in the 6th Bhava: will be free from sickness and sin, will be very wise, be endowed with weapon and wealth, will have servants and will be of good nature.

Candr, Mangal in the 6th Bhava: will be troubled by diseases, will lose his intellect, be splendouruos, be unfortunate and will face killing (be killed) and be imprisoned.

Candr, Budh in the 6th Bhava: will be forsake by the people of his race and by his relatives, will not be very rich, will have a bad wife, be timid and cuing.

Candr, Guru in the 6th Bhava: will be devoid of intelligence and long life, will develop defects in limbs due to sickness and be devoid of desires and good qualities.

Candr, Śukr in the 6th Bhava: will have a accomplished physique, will be defeated by enemies, be interested in sinful acts, will have balanced expenditure and will have bad character.

Candr, Śani in the 6th Bhava: will have bad mentality, be timid, unintelligent, will have a distressed body, be ugly and be devoid of sexual desires.

Mangal, Budh in the 6th Bhava: will have bad mentality, be timid, unintelligent, will have a distressed body, be ugly and be devoid of sexual desires.

Mangal, Guru in the 6th Bhava: will have few sons, be of wicked disposition, be insulted by others, will not observe any religious conduct, be uncharitable and intent upon promoting quarrels.

Mangal, Śukr: will be interested in women, be conquered by women, be interested in sinful acts, be intelligent, wicked and will not possess Śāstraic learning.

Mangal, Śani: will have firm mental disposition, will have hard (strong) limbs, will conquer his enemies, be an expert in moral merits.

Budh, Guru in the 6th Bhava: will be lazy, devoid of intelligence, troubled by kings, wealthy and interested in sexual acts.

Budh, Śukr: will have many conveyances, be happy, very valorous, dear to people, liked by women and be highly skillful.

Budh, Śani in the 6th Bhava: will have many enemies, be sickly disposed, be devoid of strength and will like others, but not his own men.

Guru, Śukr in the 6th Bhava: will be interested in sexual acts, be fickle-minded about ladies, be addicted to liquor, be ungrateful, sinful and will cheat.

Guru, Śani in the 6th Bhava: will be forsaken by wife, be sick, be devoid of truth and wealth, be interested in unethical deeds and be always miserable.

Śukr, Śani in the 6th Bhava: will be very valorous, will be endowed with wealth, fortune and happiness, will have strength (perfection) of all limbs and will destroy enemies.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal in the 6th Bhava: will be of mean disposition, will have ugly mentality, be troubled by diseases, will cheat others, be unkind and will be in the company of bad people.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh in the 6th Bhava: will be sinful, given to anger, will have disloyal servants, be devoid of wealth and grains, will fear and be ruthless.

Sūrya, Candr, Guru in the 6th Bhava: will experience various miseries, will be forsaken by children, wife and servants, will have mean profession and no wealth.

Sūrya, Candr, Śukr in the 6th Bhava: will be mean, strong, egoistic, of ugly mentality, devoid of affection.

Sūrya, Candr, Śani in the 6th Bhava: will be sinful, be not attached to people, will have hard legs, be fearful and hasty.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh in the 6th Bhava: be sinful, not attached to people, will have various kids of wealth, will conquer his enemies, will have many friends and be devoid of war (quarrel) etc.

Sūrya, Mangal, Guru in the 6th Bhava: will be brave, be interested in Śāstras, will conquer his five senses.

Sūrya, Mangal, Śukr in the 6th Bhava: will have various kids of happiness, be dear to women, be expert in always enjoying sexual pleasures, be very rich and just.

Sūrya, Mangal, Śani in the 6th Bhava: will enjoy laded property, will have pure body (in.e. defectless body), will possess horses, elephants and wealth, be very skillful and will do meritorious acts.

Sūrya, Budh, Guru in the 6th Bhava: will be sensuous, be interested in acts of blemish, will not have religious faith, be bereft of good nature and mercy and will cheat.

Sūrya, Budh, Śukr in the 6th Bhava: will experience various kids of blemishes, be very hard-hearted and be devoid of truth, mercy, shame and intelligence.

Sūrya, Budh, Śani in the 6th Bhava: will be bereft of beauty (good appearance), sons and wife, will always perform evil acts, be fearful in appearance, be exceedingly in temperament and be a skillful speaker.

Sūrya, Guru, Śukr in the 6th Bhava: will be exceedingly greedy, will possess gold, robe and ornaments, be ugly in appearance and will be devoid of intelligence.

Sūrya, Guru, Śani in the 6th Bhava: will be clever in performance, will be interested in singing, will have several enjoyments and be interested in digging tasks and wells.

Sūrya, Śukr, Śani in the 6th Bhava: will be dear to good people, will be a eloquent speaker, be interested in Śāstras, be skillful, be highly learned and will have knowledge of Śāstras.

Candr, Mangal, Budh in the 6th Bhava: will experience various measures of miseries, be untruthful, be intelligent, will eat other’s food and be able to guess about others’ mid.

Candr, Mangal, Guru in the 6th Bhava: will be devoid of truth and wealth, will be very much wounded because of empty, will lose courage and will be devoid of lordship.

Candr, Mangal, Śukr in the 6th Bhava: will be poor, be bereft of relatives, will have the nature to remain pleased, be dear to his workmen and be troubled by the three temperaments, in.e. wind, phlegm and bile.

Candr, Mangal, Śani in the 6th Bhava: will experience of loss of children, will go for empty, will have injured body, will have desires, be defeated and listless towards Śāstras.

Candr, Budh, Guru in the 6th Bhava: will be short-lived, distressed, devoid of Śāstraic learning, interested in blaming others and be a atheist.

Candr, Budh, Śukr in the 6th Bhava: will be subjected to various diseases, be little efficacious, be bereft ow wife and be always troubled by poverty.

Candr, Budh, Śani in the 6th Bhava: will be troubled by miseries, will possess sexual desires, be not interested in helping others, be not virtuous and be poor.

Candr, Guru, Śukr in the 6th Bhava: will be naturally a sinner, will lose money on account of religious observances, will become infamous, be very mean and be blamed by relatives.

Candr, Guru, Śani in the 6th Bhava: will be bereft of intelligence, be very miserable, cruel, cuing and devoid of self-respect.

Candr, Śukr, Śani in the 6th Bhava: will be very miserable, be devoid of wisdom, learning and modesty and be troubled.

Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 6th Bhava: will be courageous, will conquer his enemies, will not be mean minded, ie broad minded, will hold the flag of virtue aloft and be sinless.

Mangal, Budh, Śukr in the 6th Bhava: will speak truth, will be of good disposition, will possess gold, precious stones, lad and Śāstraic wisdom.

Mangal, Budh, Śani in the 6th Bhava: will have various kids of enjoyments, will control his five senses, be wealthy, very beautiful, attached to his wife and will blame others.

Mangal, Guru, Śukr in the 6th Bhava: will have good conduct, be dear to people will possess high degree of knowledge of Śāstras, be justly disposed and will be liked by many.

Mangal, Guru, Śani in the 6th Bhava: will be sick, be bereft of parents (in.e. will lose them early), be fiercely disposed, be interested in sinful acts and be subjected to blemishes.

Mangal, Śukr, Śani in the 6th Bhava: will be kindly disposed, be dear to women, be interested in others’ jobs, will follow good people and be virtuous.

Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 6th Bhava: will make one conquer enemies, famous, valorous and influencial in general.

Budh, Guru, Śani in the 6th Bhava: will have on sons, will be fettered, will be black complexioned, will wear rags, will be devoid of good history and will be against justice.

Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 6th Bhava: will be very poor, be not valorous and will hate Śāstras, preceptors and Brahmis.

Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 6th Bhava: will have a emaciated body, be unkind, unjust, poor and over-anxious and will dislike the virtuous.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh in the 6th Bhava: will always have distressed mid, will make futile efforts, will experience sickness and fear, will have ugly eyes and wicked mid.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Guru in the 6th Bhava: will have big teeth, big eyes and big one, be shameless and will always be filled with fear.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Śukr in the 6th Bhava: will have a clean physique, be devoid of vedic learning, be fettered, over-anxious and harsh in speech.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Śani in the 6th Bhava: will have injured limbs, be troubled, be not splendouruos, will cheat others, be restless and will be won over by the fair sex.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Guru in the 6th Bhava: will be a eunuch, dunce, simpleton, be very timid and be insulted by one and all.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Śukr in the 6th Bhava: will suffer contortion on account of various diseases, be interested in others’ food and will have little friendship.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Śani in the 6th Bhava: will be interested in bad deeds and untruth, will invite risks and be a simpleton.

Sūrya, Candr, Guru, Śukr in the 6th Bhava: will not be famous, be interested in others’ wives, will be very unkind and will cheat others.

Sūrya, Candr, Guru, Śani in the 6th Bhava: will have a emaciated body, will join foolish persons, will be fettered, or killed, will have mean profession and will be of very bad disposition.

Sūrya, Candr, Śukr, Śani in the 6th Bhava: will indulge in bad acts, be devoid of honour of Gods, preceptors and Brahmins, be insulted by others and be hard-hearted.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 6th Bhava: will destroy his enemies, be courageous, skillful in speech, worshiped by the king, interested in good qualities and will be endowed with intelligence.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Śukr in the 6th Bhava: will be very kid, will have a equally grow up physique, be a eloquent speaker, be courageous and dear to Brahmis.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Śani in the 6th Bhava: will be dear to virtuous, courageous, conceit-manifested, fierce in appearance, happily disposed and dear to all.

Sūrya, Mangal, Guru, Śukr in the 6th Bhava: will have agriculture, as chief profession, be principled, will be a good consultant on Mantras and be dear to king.

Sūrya, Mangal, Guru, Śani in the 6th Bhava: will be of wicked disposition, be dear to his me and will be endowed with splendour and fame.

Sūrya, Mangal, Śukr, Śani in the 6th Bhava: will be skillful, will join and assembly of skillful me, be famous, amicable to elders and will always be interested in meritorious acts.

Sūrya, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 6th Bhava: will be principal among intelligent people, will conquer his enemies, will possess a beautiful body and will be sweetly disposed.

Sūrya, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 6th Bhava: will have noble notions, be not intelligent, will have Śāstraic knowledge, fame and conveyances.

Sūrya, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 6th Bhava: will visit shrines, will vary anxious, be dear to good people and interested in learning.

Sūrya, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 6th Bhava: will be highly intelligent, will be capable of bestowing (or giving away freely anything asked for, like the Divine Kapla Tree), be skillful, very efficacious and be well placed.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 6th Bhava: will be highly learned, be interested in women, will possess wealth and be justly disposed.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śukr in the 6th Bhava: will be devoid of wealth be defective limbed and attached to people.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śani in the 6th Bhava: will be troubled by sickness, be interested in living in foreign countries, will have wicked disposition, be sexually troubled and will have a emaciated body.

Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śukr in the 6th Bhava: will be devoid of kindness, be of hard disposition and be averse to Śāstras.

Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śani in the 6th Bhava: will be subjected to penury, be devoid of pleasures, will always have enemies, be bad and fickle minded.

Candr, Mangal, Śukr, Śani in the 6th Bhava: will be untruthful, be excessively windy in temperament, will be in the company of bad people, be unkind and hard-hearted.

Candr, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 6th Bhava: will be short-lived, will be physically troubled, be shameless and be intent on commiting sinful acts.

Candr, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 6th Bhava: will be of bad nature, be interested in religious principles, be of cuing disposition and will hate his teacher.

Candr, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 6th Bhava: will depend on others, be wickedly disposed, forsake by his wife, hard hearted and commit sin.

Candr, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 6th Bhava: will deserve hatred be, cruel, devoid of so and wife, will follow his promised and will be troubled by sexual feelings.

Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 6th Bhava: will be sportive in spirit, pleasing to eyes, dear to king and proudly disposed.

Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 6th Bhava: will be broad minded, be pleasing to eyes, dear to king, proud, unkind and virtuous.

Mangal, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 6th Bhava: will worship Fire God, will be interested in sacrifices, observances and worships. and will ear merits by visiting shrines.

Mangal, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 6th Bhava: will be courageous, be a skillful astrologer and will be famous in performing religious sacrifices.

Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 6th Bhava: will be charitable, dirty in disposition and will be conquered by females.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 6th Bhava: will be ugly, immodest, will be troubled by others and will cheat others.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śukr in the 6th Bhava: will be highly short-tempered, be a top-class tale-bearer and a thief, be ungrateful, be interested in making enemies and be miserable.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śani in the 6th Bhava: will suffer from venereal diseases, will steal and be averse to good people.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śukr in the 6th Bhava: will be interested in bad deeds, will lose wealth will have knowledge of Tantras and will suffer from diseases of mouth, or face.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śani in the 6th Bhava: have diseases of head, will suffer from fever, be not wise and be very ugly.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Śukr, Śani in the 6th Bhava: will be devoid of courage, be a dunce and be bereft of wisdom and learning.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 6th Bhava: will be devoid of splendour, be not out-spoke, be devoid of wealth and be interested in meritorious acts.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 6th Bhava: will wear rags, will suffer from metal distress, will be wounded, be not truthful, be disabled and indigent.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 6th Bhava: will be hard-hearted, sinful, cruel, will violate people and will not be successful in his undertakings.

Sūrya, Candr, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 6th Bhava: will be devoid of wealth, sons and principles and will be conquered by base persons.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 6th Bhava: will be devoid of kindness, will have prodigal sons, be distressed and subjected to diseases.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 6th Bhava: will be shameless, unkind, will join base me and will acquire diseases.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 6th Bhava: will be troubled by wounds, be devoid of truth and purity, be not of good nature and be diseased.

Sūrya, Mangal, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 6th Bhava: will be hated by people, be devoid of self-respect, be a simpleton, be interested in bad acts and devoid of conduct.

Sūrya, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 6th Bhava: will be devoid of sons, be interested in others’ women, be very poor and cruel.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 6th Bhava: will be free from diseases, be of dirty disposition, be libidinous and be not virtuous.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 6th Bhava: will suffer from stragary (painful discharge of urine), be bereft of wife, be dirty and lazy.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 6th Bhava: will be mentally distressed right from birth, will have surprising windy diseases (in.e. difficult to be cured), be ungrateful and unprincipled.

Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 6th Bhava: will be forsake by people, be interested in others’ wives, be sinful and intent upon living in others countries.

Candr, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 6th Bhava: will have more enemies, be devoid of so and wife, be interested in money and be lazy.

Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 6th Bhava: will be bereft of Śāstraic learning, sons and wealth and be forsake by all.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 6th Bhava: will have trembling hands and legs, will do base deeds, be fearful and conquered by enemies.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 6th Bhava: will be very miserable, be a drukardd, be devoid of shoulders (in.e. drooped etc.) and will not have robes and ornaments.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 6th Bhava: will not be splendouruos, be ill-natured and be unprincipled.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 6th Bhava: will not be patient, will cheat, be sick and be conquered by wicked people.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 6th Bhava: will be of crooked disposition, be unkind, be very poor, be devoid of wife and relatives and will destroy the king (i.e. will prove ominous to the king).

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 6th Bhava: will be of wandering disposition and be highly intelligent.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 6th Bhava: will be of wicked disposition, be immodest, will wader unfruitfully and be bereft of self-respect.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 6th Bhava: will be truthful, just, virtuous, skillful, wealthy and famous.

7th
Sūrya, Candr: will be distressed, be hasty, not virtuous and highly cunning.

Sūrya, Mangal in the 7th Bhava: will be interested in others’ wives, be not charitable, be troubled by huger, attached to preceptors and Brahmins and be cruel.

Sūrya, Budh: will have a insincere wife, will be a eunuch, be devoid of sexual happiness, be unfruitful (not result manifesting) and be endowed with relatives.

Sūrya, Guru in the 7th Bhava: will have little happiness, be harsh in speech, will depend on others for food and grow and be miserable.

Bhava: will eat others’ food, be interested in serving others, be devoid of relatives, be distressed and indigent.
Sūrya, Śani in the 7th Bhava: will be devoid of conjugal pleasures, will have a wicked wife, will ear more enemies, be troubled by diseases and be wrought by fear.

Candr, Mangal in the 7th Bhava: will suffer from stomachial disorders, be devoid of learning, be fierce and will acquire fear due to his aims and illicit intercourse.

Candr, Budh: will have numerous sons and wife, be fickle-minded, be devoid of truth and mercy and be dear to relatives.

Candr, Guru in the 7th Bhava: will learn many Śāstras, will have many friends, be beautiful and be worshiped by the king.

Candr, Śukr in the 7th Bhava: will acquire a auspicious wife, will enjoy various kids of wealth and pleasures, be very happy and intelligent.

Candr, Śani in the 7th Bhava: will be sickly disposed, be very timid, be interested in carnal pleasures, be cruel, will have servants and be interested in others’ wives.

Mangal, Budh in the 7th Bhava: will be of crooked disposition, will cheat, be not splendourous and be defective limbed.

Mangal, Guru in the 7th Bhava: will be interested in joining base people, will wader fruitlessly, will have injured, or afflicted body on account of sin.

Mangal, Śukr in the 7th Bhava: will be rejected by people, will be troubled by blood-oozig body, be insulted by others and be unjustly disposed.

Mangal, Śani in the 7th Bhava: will suffer from various diseases, will have a emaciated body will promote quarrels, will do wicked acts and will be highly beautiful.

Budh, Guru in the 7th Bhava: will have high metal latitude, be proud, fickle-minded, distressed, be a sped-thrift and be troubled by sexual feelings.

Budh, Śukr in the 7th Bhava: will acquire a virtuous wife, will have physical comforts and happiness, be unkind and be ungrateful to wife.

Budh, Śani in the 7th Bhava: will have a wicked wife, be physically troubled on account of sex, will have vices, be insulted by others and be not virtuous.

Guru, Śukr in the 7th Bhava: will house various diseases, will have strange voice and auspicious body, be cruel, praiseworthy, famous and pious of God and Brahmins.

Guru, Śani in the 7th Bhava: will be conquered by women will misappropriate women’s wealth, be devoid of truth and wealth, be a liar and sier.

Śukr, Śani in the 7th Bhava: will have many enemies, will eat unedibles, will violate others’ beds, be shameless and will nourish others.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal in the 7th Bhava: will have physical troubles out of sickness, be fickle-minded, will suffer from sexual distress, be not virtuous and will be won over by women.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh in the 7th Bhava: will be devoid of sos, will join base women, will be hard in disposition, be troubled and be sensuous.

Sūrya, Candr, Guru in the 7th Bhava: will incur diseases, will not be firm in regard to females, be cruel and sinfully disposed.

Sūrya, Candr, Śukr in the 7th Bhava: will be deprived of wife, will have hatred, anger and enmity, will live in foreign countries and be inimical to preceptors.

Sūrya, Candr, Śani in the 7th Bhava: will be wicked, interested in the next world, frank and will have knowledge of Justice.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh in the 7th Bhava: will be devoid of efficacy and pleasure, be interested in eating others’ food, will depend on others and be sinful.

Sūrya, Mangal, Guru in the 7th Bhava: will be insulted by others, will join base me, be interested in bad deeds and will not adopt religious observances.

Sūrya, Mangal, Śukr in the 7th Bhava: will be bereft of distinction, be not kind., be sinfully inclined, be full of diseases, be not learned and be unwise.

Sūrya, Mangal, Śani in the 7th Bhava: will possess and ugly physique, will have a wife devoid of character, will be of bad mentality, be ungrateful, fear-filled, emaciated due to libidinous nature and cruel in disposition.

Sūrya, Budh, Guru in the 7th Bhava: will be of bad nature, be fear stricken, be forsake by elders, be not kind, be unwealthy and will wear rags.

Sūrya, Budh, Śukr in the 7th Bhava: will be inclined to join base me, be merciless, be interested in stealing, will have a mean wife, will not have profane knowledge derived from worldly experience, but be intelligent.

Sūrya, Budh, Śani in the 7th Bhava: will have ugly body, over anxious, interested in his mean wife, fear-stricke, will watch for weak points and be wicked.

Sūrya, Guru, Śukr in the 7th Bhava: will be unkind, will incur disease after disease, be forsake by his wife, will join base me and will not trust in Śāstras.

Sūrya, Guru, Śani in the 7th Bhava: will have a dejected wife, will not be attached to people, be poor in mentality and will tremble with fear.

Sūrya, Śukr, Śani in the 7th Bhava: will be libidinous, be very happy, be skillful in having sexual enjoyments, will conquer senses and will join charitable people.

Candr, Mangal, Budh in the 7th Bhava: will be ugly, be scholarly, poor, cruel, will lose his wife and knowledge.

Candr, Mangal, Guru in the 7th Bhava: will be helpful, truthful, will have a skillful wife, be interested in war and will always be inclined towards sexual enjoyment.

Candr, Mangal, Śukr in the 7th Bhava: will wear rags, be fierce, be not attached to the virtuous, be hard-hearted and will do blame-worthy acts.

Candr, Mangal, Śani in the 7th Bhava: will be interested in good company, be out-spoke, interested in Vedas and be favorable to preceptors and Gods.

Candr, Budh, Guru in the 7th Bhava: will enjoy abundant pleasures, will speak eloquently, be interested in women and in Śāstras and be a expert warrior.

Candr, Budh, Śukr in the 7th Bhava: will perform meritorious acts, be honorable, good-natured and modest.

Candr, Budh, Śani in the 7th Bhava: will be rich, will be endowed with food, grains and belief and will have many sos.

Candr, Guru, Śukr in the 7th Bhava: will perform meritorious acts, will be dear to women, be fearless, virtuous and famous.

Candr, Guru, Śani in the 7th Bhava: will be worshiped eve by Indra (in.e. will be so superior and divine a personage), will have knowledge of Mantras, will possess elephants and horses, will conquer his senses and will visit shrines.

Candr, Śukr, Śani in the 7th Bhava: will be skillful in achieving carnal pleasures, will be great in Śāstraic knowledge, will acquire wealth, will make distinct progress, be virtuous and will use money for good deeds.

Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 7th Bhava: will be great, be meritorious in acts, be worshiped by enemies, be jealous and dear to good people.

Mangal, Budh, Śukr in the 7th Bhava: will be subjected to troubles, will lose his wealth, be interested in eating meat, be very bad in disposition, will kill (in.e. be a butcher, murderer etc.) and be famous.

Mangal, Budh, Śani in the 7th Bhava: not give in the text.

Mangal, Guru, Śukr in the 7th Bhava: will have broad eyes, be bashful will be endowed with fame and happiness, adbe amiable to Brahmins.

Mangal, Guru, Śani in the 7th Bhava: will be very short-tempered, be highly inimical, be devoid of luck, be troubled by diseases and will join bad people.

Mangal, Śukr, Śani in the 7th Bhava: will be auspicious, be devoid of intelligence, will be a good servant in royal administration, be free from enemies, be just and honored by his relatives.

Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 7th Bhava: will be chief among kings, be very wealthy, very happy, be endowed with a virtuous wife and be dear to people.

Budh, Guru, Śani in the 7th Bhava: will be famous, will be endowed with several kids of wealth, Śāstraic acquaintance and palaces and be highly meritorious.

Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 7th Bhava: will be worshiped by the king, will conquer his enemies, will enjoy laded properties and wealth, be always meritorious, noble and skillful.

Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 7th Bhava: will be endowed with quadrupeds, be truthful, will have frequent movements (from place to place), will have good nature and be attached to Brahmins.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh in the 7th Bhava: will be devoid of valour, be unkind, interested in sinful stories, will make futile efforts and will be highly short-tempered.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Guru in the 7th Bhava: will be dear to the virtuous, kind, will have many wives and many sos and be friendly in disposition.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Śukr in the 7th Bhava: will be bereft of wife, interested in blaming others, will speak little truth (in.e. sometimes truthful and sometimes not), be hard-hearted and be not inclined towards charity.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Śani in the 7th Bhava: will have a wicked wife, be bereft of sos, be cruel, will perform meritorious acts be pretentious in disposition.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Guru in the 7th Bhava: will have many wives, will be of false disposition and be blame worthy.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Śukr in the 7th Bhava: will face many difficulties due to bad wife, be very impetuous and be phlegmatic.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Śani in the 7th Bhava: will be attached to bad people, will visit prostitutes, be sinful, ungrateful, be troubled by bilious complaints, be wicked and be unintelligible.

Sūrya, Candr, Guru, Śukr in the 7th Bhava: will be dirty, will perform on-Śāstraic acts, be intent on living in foreign places a be not wise.

Sūrya, Candr, Guru, Śani in the 7th Bhava: will be devoid of sos, will be a great liar, will have a emaciated body and be interested in promoting quarrels.

Sūrya, Candr, Śukr, Śani in the 7th Bhava: will be night-blind, be fierce, be subjected to much anguish, will experience evils, will lose wealth, be interested in vedic learning and be of mean mid.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 7th Bhava: will be always subjected to troubles, will have thin body and will be mentally troubled due to wife’s blemish.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Śukr in the 7th Bhava: will possess and ugly wife, will be of bad character, be adverse to Śāstras, be devoid of sos and good principles.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Śani in the 7th Bhava: will make one a army chief, a king’s minister, do base acts and libidinous.

Sūrya, Mangal, Guru, Śukr in the 7th Bhava: will be unkind, be interested in sexual accounts, be cuing, be a drunkard and will acquire bad, or mean learning.

Sūrya, Mangal, Guru, Śani in the 7th Bhava: will be bereft of wife, be inimical to others, will promote quarrels and will be highly afflicted.

Sūrya, Mangal, Śukr, Śani in the 7th Bhava: will be devoid of money, devoid of shame, be harsh in disposition, be notoriously sinful (in.e. well-known for his bad deeds) and be interested in his ow people.

Sūrya, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 7th Bhava: will be free from diseases, be of pretentious disposition, be fond of meat and be defeated by enemies.

Sūrya, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 7th Bhava: will be devoid of wisdom, will have on knowledge of vedas and other Śāstras, will be unfortunate and will promote quarrels.

Sūrya, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 7th Bhava: will give good face, facial beauty, truthful disposition and virtue.

Sūrya, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 7th Bhava: will be give to much anger, be harsh in disposition, be devoid of wealth and sos and will cheat others.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 7th Bhava: will perform auspicious acts, be beautiful, will have pleased mid and be a lord.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śukr in the 7th Bhava: will possess a good-looking wife, be himself good looking, will have many sos and be just.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śani in the 7th Bhava: will be very courageous, be liberal in acts, be intelligent and be respectful to Brahmins and Gods.

Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śukr in the 7th Bhava: will be free from jealousy, be principled devoid of principles be charitable and skillful.

Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śani in the 7th Bhava: will possess beautiful appearance, be dear to women, will have beautiful and broad eyes, be eloquent in speech and be dear to kings.

Candr, Mangal, Śukr, Śani in the 7th Bhava: will be liked by good people, be truthful, endowed with wisdom, be skillful, be devoid of fear and be unjust.

Candr, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 7th Bhava: will be dear to guests, be charitable, be of good disposition, be greatly truthful and will respect preceptors.

Candr, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 7th Bhava: will be liked by virtuous people, will have sos, be charitable, pleased, will have beautiful wife and be intelligent.

Candr, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 7th Bhava: will be modest, will face obstacles in his undertakings (will have checkered career), will be highly intelligent, be skillful and will destroy his enemies.

Candr, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 7th Bhava: will be highly bashful, will have sos and wife, will control his senses and will have a physique devoid of ‘evils’ (This will mean, that the native does not commit evils, or sin).

Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 7th Bhava: will be full of fortunes, be honoured, be akin to a king, will confer auspiciousness and be truthful.

Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 7th Bhava: will have many wives, will hold the flag of virtue aloft, be truthful, happy, merciful and will destroy others.

Mangal, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 7th Bhava: will be interested in achieving distinction, will have beautiful body, will be very wealth and fortunate, be good looking, be chief among his me and be modest.

Mangal, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 7th Bhava: will be highly valorous, famous, strong will have auspicious limbs and be free from pains.

Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 7th Bhava: will acquire a skillful wife, be free from enemies and be just.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 7th Bhava: will be a eunuch, be ugly, be evil-minded and harsh.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śukr in the 7th Bhava: will be dull-witted, troubled by phlegmatic disorders, be unintelligible, be loathsome and will have a bad wife.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śani in the 7th Bhava: will have bad daughters and bad sos, will have a emaciated body, will maintain speechlessness and will perform uncharitable acts.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śukr in the 7th Bhava: will be unsteady about females, interested in sexual accounts, be timid in nature and will have many blemishes.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śani in the 7th Bhava: will be devoid of splendour, will be a chief cheat, be negligent of high order and will be inimical to people.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Śukr, Śani in the 7th Bhava: will be highly jealous, be troubled by high sexual feelings, will have a inimical wife and will be unintelligible.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 7th Bhava: the native will be merciless, will lose his wife and children, will eat much and be harsh in speech.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 7th Bhava: will be devoid of fame, will cheat others, will have many enemies and will guess others’ mid.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 7th Bhava: will have evil notions, will enjoy conveyances, will have cardiac diseases and will be friendly to all.

Sūrya, Candr, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 7th Bhava: will be unkind, will eat others’ food, be mean and will have a wicked wife.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 7th Bhava: will not be splendourous, be devoid of wealth, sos and gratitude and be hard-hearted.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 7th Bhava: will be shameless, will not study Vedas, will like sinful acts, will by nature join base me and be sickly.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 7th Bhava: will be foolish, be fond of childish acts, be miserly and of bad disposition.

Sūrya, Mangal, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 7th Bhava: will be poor, will have vices, be very timid in disposition and will hate his relatives.

Sūrya, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 7th Bhava:: will have a very wicked wife, will be immodest, will be at all times huger-stricke and be devoid of intelligence.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 7th Bhava: will be very kind, be justly disposed, be truthful, dear to good men and will acquire a virtuous wife.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 7th Bhava: be disposed charitably, be dear to women and be eloquent in speech.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 7th Bhava: will be patient in disposition, will have good conduct, be praiseworthy intelligent and will like his relatives.

Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 7th Bhava: will show interest in shrines, be worshiped by kings and will be served by many.

Candr, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 7th Bhava: will show interest in shrines, be worshiped by kings and will be served by many.

Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 7th Bhava: will be devoid of enmity, be interested in giving charities and will be well-praised by virtuous people.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 7th Bhava: will be devoid of truth and wealth, be troubled by diseases and will be distressed due to royal troubles.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 7th Bhava: will be a servant, will suffer from serious diseases, will wear rags and will indulge in cheating.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 7th Bhava: will be troubled by diseases, be indolent and will have a wicked wife and will have a troubled physique.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 7th Bhava: will be miserable, be immodest, troubled by huger and will incur good results out of fear.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 7th Bhava: will be unsuccessful, unfriendly, unhappy, will do fierce deeds and be miserly.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 7th Bhava: will be interested inn others’ women, be troubled by others and will lack intelligence.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 7th Bhava: will be kingly, beautiful, very wealthy and be always happy.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 7th Bhava: will be an emperator, be very famous and be very valorous, be virtuous and be liked by all.

8th
Sūrya, Candr in the 8th Bhava: will be very sickly, short-lived, friendly, happy, shameless and be timid in war (not bold in quarrels, disputes, uptake).

Sūrya, Mangal in the 8th Bhava: will suffer from complaints of blood, be unsteady, be interested in sinful acts, be devoid of friends, will lack mental vigour and wealth.

Sūrya, Budh in the 8th Bhava: will have bad mentality, will grow on others’ food, live in foreign countries, be devoid of valour and be free from enemies.

Sūrya, Guru in the 8th Bhava: will be devoid of self-respect, be wicked, be interested in other man’s wife and be devoid of intelligence.

Sūrya, Śukr in the 8th Bhava: will have money, earned in bad ways, be ugly, will be interested in bad place, will eat the food of a bad king (will earn money through a corrupt employer), will have bad profession and will be conquered.

Sūrya, Śani in the 8th Bhava: will have excess phlegm in temperament, be highly rheumatic, be devoid of truth and passion and will always like to earn from foreign places.

Bhava: will have bad disposition, be troubled by diseases, miserable, unsuccessful and be able to guess others.
Candr, Budh in the 8th Bhava: will have wicked mentality, be troubled by diseases, be like a eunuch, be fraudulent, will suffer from a serious disease and be a miser.

Candr, Guru in the 8th Bhava: will be devoid of meritorious acts, be short-lived, poor, foolish, crippled and will have bad company.

Candr, Śukr in the 8th Bhava: will be of blame-worthy disposition, be timid, sinful and will blame others.

Candr, Śani in the 8th Bhava: will be desirous of receiving the mercy of bad people, will have futile illusion, be happy; peaceful, ad will be fiven up by his wife.

Mangal, Budh in the 8th Bhava: will look old in your itself, be ungrateful and will have harmful notios.

Mangal, Guru in the 8th Bhava: will have illegal money, be poor, base, will have many enemies, be defeated and be miser.

Mangal, Guru in the 8th Bhava: will be desirous of doing bad acts, be untruthful, will lose money out of mercy, be not valorous and be a dunce.

Mangal, Śani in the 8th Bhava: will be ugly, be issueless, will have a very wicked wife, be devoid of intelligence and virtue ad will live in foreign countries.

Budh, Guru in the 8th Bhava: will be devoid of relatives, will loss wisdom, will cheat and will suffer misery on account of bad company.

Budh, Śukr in the 8th Bhava: will have a polluted physique, be unjust, will eat others’ food and serve others. He will have knowledge of the atom.

Budh, Śani in the 8th Bhava: will have many aims, will be sinfully disposed, will be a tale-beared and be devoid of intelligence.

Guru, Śukr in the 8th Bhava: will have many enemies, make enmity without purpose, have few children and will not be interested in Śāstras.

Guru, Śani in the 8th Bhava: will be bereft of grains and wealth, will be very inimical, be troubled and be very wicked.

Śukr, Śani in the 8th Bhava: will join others’ wives, will eat others’ food, will serve others, will always tell lies and be unjust.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal in the 8th Bhava: will be untruthful, be not in the company of rich men, be not himself rich, be fierce, devoid of good qualities, be very miserable and will join bad people.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh in the 8th Bhava: will be a destitute, or be mean, be of bad mental disposition, be not splendourous, will join very base men, mean-minded, sick and sinful.

Sūrya, Candr, Guru in the 8th Bhava: will be sinful, dear to wicked people, will make futile efforts, be interested in drinks (intoxicants) and tales, be devoid of friends and will acquire an excellent wife.

Sūrya, Candr, Śukr in the 8th Bhava: will be devoid of wealth, will do bad acts, be very short-tempered, immodest, interested in others’ food ad will cheat.

Sūrya, Candr, Śani in the 8th Bhava: will be untruthful, indigent, be lazy, sleepy, miserable, devoid of valour and be very timid.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh in the 8th Bhava: will be devoid of friends, be poor, will have rags, will join rich men, will be interested in liquor and be devoid of friendliness.

Sūrya, Mangal, Guru in the 8th Bhava: will be devoid of truth and fame, be vividly miserable, be a miser, troubled by heavy expenditure and sexual feelings.

Sūrya, Mangal, Śukr in the 8th Bhava: will be impure, unfriendly, very efficacious, timid and infamous.

Sūrya, Mangal, Śani in the 8th Bhava: will suffer from diseases, will have enemies, be not virtuous, be very ill-tempered and be bereft of his men.

Sūrya, Budh, Guru in the 8th Bhava: will be shameless, will blame the people, will be bereft of religion and profession, be not efficacious, be unkind and not happy.

Sūrya, Budh, Śukr in the 8th Bhava: will do various kind of acts, will destroy enemies, be valorous, will enjoy happiness from children, will indulge vicious acts and will acquire abundant grains.

Sūrya, Budh, Śani in the 8th Bhava: will be miserable due to diseases, be not famous and be a cheat.

Sūrya, Guru, Śukr in the 8th Bhava: will be endowed with money and grains, be happy, will be highly skillful in many kinds of speech, be kind and meritorious in acts.

Sūrya, Guru, Śani in the 8th Bhava: will be subjected to many diseases, will deviate from the path of religion, be not virtuous, be argumentative and be devoid of relatives.

Sūrya, Śukr, Śani in the 8th Bhava: will be very miserable.

Candr, Mangal, Budh in the 8th Bhava: will inflict harm to the king.

Candr, Mangal, Guru in the 8th Bhava: will suffer from hunger and thirst and will be after sexual pleasures.

Candr, Mangal, Śukr in the 8th Bhava: will be happy and will be favourable to the king.

Candr, Mangal, Śani in the 8th Bhava: will suffer from various kinds of diseases.

Candr, Budh, Guru in the 8th Bhava: will be at logger heads with his wife.

Candr, Budh, Śukr in the 8th Bhava: will be a recipient of royal favours, but will be bereft of money and corn.

Candr, Budh, Śani in the 8th Bhava: will have a number of enemies.

Candr, Guru, Śukr in the 8th Bhava: will be very happy and will possess a good wife.

Candr, Guru, Śani in the 8th Bhava: will be after the women of other men.

Candr, Śukr, Śani in the 8th Bhava: will lose his wife and be devoid of intelligence.

Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 8th Bhava: will acquire many diseases on account of misdeeds of his own.

Mangal, Budh, Śukr in the 8th Bhava: will have abundant money earned through thieves.

Mangal, Budh, Śani in the 8th Bhava: will suffer from leprosy, much misery and much penury.

Mangal, Guru, Śukr in the 8th Bhava: will acquire diseases and poverty through many people.

Mangal, Guru, Śani in the 8th Bhava: will destroy many of his enemies.

Mangal, Śukr, Śani in the 8th Bhava: will on his own increase his diseases.

Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 8th Bhava: will obtain destruction of wealth and grains.

Budh, Guru, Śani in the 8th Bhava: will be sickly and be skillful in imprisoning and killing.

Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 8th Bhava: will acquire many diseases.

Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 8th Bhava: will be highly miserable.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh in the 8th Bhava: will suffer acute penury.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Guru in the 8th Bhava: will suffer great grief.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Śukr in the 8th Bhava: will be modest at all times, will join base females, will get bad sons and bad (illegal) money, will have bad qualities, will be very ill-tempered and very wicked.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Śani in the 8th Bhava: will be devoid of children, will have bad qualities, will be ugly, be insulted and be unintelligible.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Guru in the 8th Bhava: will not have skillful mentality, will be troubled by hunger, be shameless and be unsuccessful.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Śukr in the 8th Bhava: will be fond of gambling, be bereft of money, will live in foreign countries and be inimical to the society.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Śani in the 8th Bhava: will be devoid of pleasures, will be forsaken by preceptors, will have a stout body and be mean in disposition.

Sūrya, Candr, Guru, Śukr in the 8th Bhava: will have no accomplishment, be unkind and be interested in the virtuous.

Sūrya, Candr, Guru, Śani in the 8th Bhava: will be violent, be not valorous, be bereft of intelligence and wealth, be always sick, timid and be subjected to difficulties.

Sūrya, Candr, Śukr, Śani in the 8th Bhava: will be wicked in speech, be interested in great sins, will join base men and will be troubled by enemies.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 8th Bhava: will be miserable, will have low professions, will acquire a bad wife and will have affliction to limbs due to sexual indulgence.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Śukr in the 8th Bhava: will lose parents, be truthfully disposed and be indolent.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Śani in the 8th Bhava: will be fickleminded, treacherous, will have bad friends, will have no accomplishment and be devoid of wealth.

Sūrya, Mangal, Guru, Śukr in the 8th Bhava: will be very timid, be troubled by sex, be wicked and will have money earned in bad ways.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 8th Bhava: will be sick, bereft of wealth, short-lived and untruthful.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śukr in the 8th Bhava: will befriend bad people, be interested in bad deeds, be devoid of good conduct and be harsh in speech.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śani in the 8th Bhava: will like to do bad deeds, will give up his people and be with others, be unwise, be not virtuous and will have no Śāstraic knowledge.

Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śukr in the 8th Bhava: will be endowed with sons, be happy, will conquer his enemies, be wise and wealthy.

Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śani in the 8th Bhava: will be devoid of sons and happiness, be against his enemies (i.e. may not pardon his enemies), will harm his friends, be sickly and poor.

Candr, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 8th Bhava: will have many enemies, will enjoy, will have gains of wealth and corns and be always intelligible.

Candr, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 8th Bhava: will cohabit with many women and will hate many persons.

Candr, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 8th Bhava: will at all times suffer from poverty, be devoid of wealth and conduct, but will have sons.

Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 8th Bhava: will be sickly, indigent, be a leper and will join his enemies.

Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 8th Bhava: will suffer from many diseases and penury and be miserable and sensuous.

Mangal, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 8th Bhava: will be intelligent, rich and friendly and will destroy enemies.

Mangal, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 8th Bhava: will be splendourous and affluent.

Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 8th Bhava: will be intelligent, wealthy, will have friends and will harm his enemies.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 8th Bhava: will be endowed with corns, money and happens, will have good conduct, be interested in Śāstras and religion and will worship Gods, preceptors and Brahmins.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śukr in the 8th Bhava: will be blind, wise, indigent and be always after women.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śani in the 8th Bhava: will go begging, be poor, be interested in the knowledge of identity of the Universe with Brahma and will be highly skillful.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śukr in the 8th Bhava: The native will be a minister, rich, famous, influential, authoritative and will inflict punishment, as justice.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 8th Bhava: will be wise, bereft of happiness from wife and will live by begging.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 8th Bhava: will be wise, bereft of happiness from wife and will live by begging. Additionally, the native will possess good qualities.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 8th Bhava: will be egoistic, be happy with regard to wife and will be wise.

Sūrya, Mangal, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 8th Bhava:

Sūrya, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 8th Bhava: will be very sick, intelligent, very poor and skillful.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 8th Bhava: will be happy in regard to wife, be liberal, of good conduct and poor.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 8th Bhava: will suffer from bad diseases, will kill, be imprisoned, will suffer from penury and be poor.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 8th Bhava: will sometimes contemplate the Supreme Spirit, yet sometimes be detached (from that path), will sometimes grow twisted (matted) hair, yet sometimes will remain tonsured and will have various (such) guises and will perform very cruel acts.

Candr, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 8th Bhava: will have many quadrupeds, be affluent, be highly scholarly and be skillful in the sciences of Sex and Yoga.

Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 8th Bhava: will always be wise, rich and be highly valorous in times of war.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 8th Bhava: will be glorious, be merciful and will be addressed, like a great king.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 8th Bhava: will have various kinds of happiness, but be bereft of wealth and will enjoy with sons.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 8th Bhava: will be endowed with abundant happiness, various kinds of wealth and will like playing with horses.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 8th Bhava: will be very rich, devoted to Brahmins and endowed with relatives.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani: will lord over elephants and horses, be chief among his men, be endowed with houses and wealth and devoted to Brahmins.

9th
Sūrya, Candr: will be very modest, be a great men, be famous for his valour, be dear to the virtuous and be justly disposed.

Sūrya, Mangal in the 9th Bhava: will be self-respected, will win over his enemies, will show interest to be free from blemish, be splendourous and skillful in rendering justice.

Sūrya, Budh: will have good intelligence, be truthful, dear to the learned and will have many friends.

Sūrya, Guru: will subdue his enemies, be happy, will enjoy gains of corns and wealth, be amiable to the virtuous and dear to the king.

Sūrya, Śukr: will be endowed with greatness, be intelligent, famous and friendly.

Sūrya, Śani in the 9th Bhava: will be endowed with wealth and intelligence, be very happy in married life and will win over his enemies.

Candr, Mangal in the 9th Bhava: will have knowledge of Śāstras, be very wealthy, skillful and will enjoy many kinds of food and drinks.

Candr, Budh: will be happy with children, will conquer his five senses, be interested in religion, praiseworthy, dear to king and worshipped by relatives.

Candr, Guru: will be not wealthy, be skillful in speech, fond of pleasures, valorous, grateful, interested in Śāstras and very intelligent.

Candr, Śukr: will be dear to great men, will have knowledge of Śāstras, be friendly and be attached to his relatives.

Candr, Śani in the 9th Bhava: will be interested in religious vows and charitable acts, be dear to king, will have many sons and pluraty of wives, be rich and will have knowledge of Śāstras.

Mangal, Budh: will have many servants, be endowed with marital happiness, will acquire sons, will be an eloquent speaker and be devoid of bad qualities.

Mangal, Guru in the 9th Bhava: will be full of virtues, will take bath in sacred rivers, will respect Brahmins and Gods, be an agriculturist and be justly disposed.

Mangal, Śukr: will honour his guests, will have beautiful body, will have very pleasing appearance, be chief in his race and will be principled.

Mangal, Śani in the 9th Bhava: will be devoid of vices, be interested in earning by truthful means, be courageous and will like his relatives.

Budh, Guru in the 9th Bhava: will have steady mind, be liked by all, be merciful, will have faith in Vedas and other Śāstras, will be chiefly an agriculturist and be always virtuous.

Budh, Śukr: will have servants, will have meritorious acts to his credit, be egoistic, will have many friends and be dear to women.

Budh, Śani in the 9th Bhava: will be very beautiful, will have abundant landed property, will be endowed with good qualities, be quite wealthy and be liked by the king.

Guru, Śukr in the 9th Bhava: will have wealth and fame, good sons and paraphernalia, be frank and fond of children.

Guru, Śani in the 9th Bhava: will be a lord, be interested in music and religion, be virtuous and favourable to good deeds.

Śukr, Śani in the 9th Bhava: will be highly meritorious, highly learned, famous, skillful in speech and dear to people.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal in the 9th Bhava: will be dear to the virtuous, interested in meritorious acts and Śāstraic account, will have purity of the body and be interested in good qualities.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh: will consider truth, as important, be beautiful, will have broad eyes, be a lord, will be endowed with a pleasing body and will be attached to his sons.

Sūrya, Candr, Guru: will be expert in principles of religion, will be endowed with wealth of learning, will be detached from sinful dealings, be very truthful and be bereft of sexual desires.

Sūrya, Candr, Śukr: will be interested in speaking harshly, will not visit shrines, be of thievish disposition and be miserable.

Sūrya, Candr, Śani in the 9th Bhava: will be interested in religious tales, be favourable to preceptors, be principled, be dear to the virtuous and will trust Śāstras.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh in the 9th Bhava: will be interested in committing sinful acts, be cruel, untruthful, ill-disposed, interested in eating others’ food and will serve others.

Sūrya, Mangal, Guru in the 9th Bhava: will be banished from the religion, will not have good history, will have a bad wife and will be detached from his relatives.

Sūrya, Mangal, Śukr in the 9th Bhava: will be devoid of religion and virtues, be vividly honoured, be devoid of good background and wisdom.

Sūrya, Mangal, Śani in the 9th Bhava: will be devoid of son, will lose the vigour of youth, be sinful, will wear rags, be highly spend-thrifs and will do irreligious acts.

Sūrya, Budh, Guru: will be endowed with riches, will have many friends, will honour Brahmins, have good disposition and be just.

Sūrya, Budh, Śukr in the 9th Bhava: will talk much, be truthful, interested in virtues, grateful, will conquer his Five senses and be free from sinful desires.

Sūrya, Budh, Śani in the 9th Bhava: will be an agriculturist, be at all times charitably disposed, will possess good splendour, be strong, broad-eyed and justly disposed.

Sūrya, Guru, Śukr in the 9th Bhava: will possess prime virtues, will acquire grains and wealth, be great and beautiful.

Sūrya, Guru, Śani in the 9th Bhava: will like (living in) foreign countries, be miserable and devoid of sexual feelings.

Sūrya, Śukr, Śani in the 9th Bhava: will be an indifferent citizen, be immodest, be sinful by nature and will have an ugly physical set up.

Candr, Mangal, Budh in the 9th Bhava: will be truthful, famous and wealthy, will be splendourous, be and astrologer, be very efficacious and great (or respectable).

Candr, Mangal, Guru in the 9th Bhava: will enjoy happiness from sons, be affectionate to friends, will possess good intelligence, conquer his five senses and will be attached to his relatives.

Candr, Mangal, Śukr in the 9th Bhava: will be happy with sons, be pure, kind worth respect even from a king and will join classic people.

Candr, Mangal, Śani in the 9th Bhava: will like food people, be very bashful, devoid of sexual feelings, will possess principally good qualities and will be destroyed by the king.

Candr, Budh, Guru: will be skillful, will like famous people, be merciful, will visit shrines and will be alert in his duty.

Candr, Budh, Śukr: will be good-looking, fierce, widely famous and attached to Brahmins at all times.

Candr, Budh, Śani in the 9th Bhava: will be dear to the virtuous, will conquer enemies, be highly virtuous and be famous.

Candr, Guru, Śukr: will be famous, will possess a virtuous wife, be principally just and be devoid of (mundane) desires.

Candr, Guru, Śani: will be a scholar of high order, be bereft of anger, be splendourous and be notably self-respected.

Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 9th Bhava: will consider wealth, as a chief possession, be helpful to preceptors (or elders), be endowed with justice and virtues, will possess abundant Śāstraic knowledge and be devoid of relatives.

Mangal, Budh, Śukr in the 9th Bhava: will be intelligent, be endowed with knowledge of various Śāstras, be wealthy, happy, patient and devoid of sexual feelings.

Mangal, Budh, Śani in the 9th Bhava: will be merciful, interested in visiting shrines, will be endowed with abundant food and drinks, will enjoy good people and be always intelligent.

Mangal, Guru, Śukr in the 9th Bhava: will be very efficacious, egoistic, interested in Śāstras and be charitable.

Mangal, Guru, Śani in the 9th Bhava: will be free from sickness, be very wealthy, virtuous, kind and fearless.

Mangal, Śukr, Śani in the 9th Bhava: will have abundant money, elephants and horses, will conquer his five senses and be valorous.

Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 9th Bhava: will be a king, be honoured by enemies and will have elephants, horses and conveyances.

Budh, Guru, Śani in the 9th Bhava: will spend on bad missions, be sickly, ungrateful, forsaken by his people and will like to be valorous.

Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 9th Bhava: will be fond of quarrels, merciful, will have many sons, be truthful and famous.

Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 9th Bhava: will be good looking, liberally disposed, modest, famous and be fond of his sons.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh in the 9th Bhava: will adopt (religions) vows, be interested in religion, be famous, devoted to Fire God and to his own relatives.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Guru in the 9th Bhava: will be free from diseases, will possess abundant wealth, be virtuous, be not valorous and be attached to others’ wives.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Śukr in the 9th Bhava: will not be splendourous, will not follow vedic duties, be devoid of shame and will guess about others.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Śani in the 9th Bhava: will be devoid of intelligence, be a dunce, be devoid of children and be highly short-tempered.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Śukr: will be highly valorous, be famous, will store wealth and be dear to people.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Śani in the 9th Bhava: will be fond of songs, be not interested in sinful matters, will perform famous deeds and be free from (mundane) desires.

Sūrya, Candr, Guru, Śukr in the 9th Bhava: will be endowed with high grade of Śāstraic knowledge, be interested in visiting shrines, will be charitable, very wealthy and justly disposed.

Sūrya, Candr, Guru, Śani in the 9th Bhava: will be rich with various kinds of wealth, be found of charitability, be dutiful and be dear to people.

Sūrya, Candr, Śukr, Śani in the 9th Bhava: will be liked by good people, be very justly disposed, will have many children and be highly respectable.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 9th Bhava: will destroy enemies, will be a lord and will possess conveyances, clothes and ornaments.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Śukr in the 9th Bhava: will not possess horses (i.e. conveyances), be wicked, be entirely devoid of mercy and will not be favourable to Brahmins.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Śani in the 9th Bhava: will be very gracious of temperament, will be an eloquent messenger (be a good ambassador) and will have many good conveyances and sons.

Sūrya, Mangal, Guru, Śukr in the 9th Bhava: will like good qualities (will himself possess good qualities), be fond of good deeds, will have a modest wife and will be very friendly disposed.

Sūrya, Mangal, Guru, Śani in the 9th Bhava: will have steady mind, be free from enemies, grateful, enthusiastic and will be endowed with mental vigour.

Sūrya, Mangal, Śukr, Śani in the 9th Bhava: will be fond of money, will like sinful dealings, will be highly greedy and will be sexually distressed.

Sūrya, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 9th Bhava: will be patient, truthful, merciful, be strong in speech and be fearless.

Sūrya, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 9th Bhava: will be fickle-minded, be fond of others’ wives, be bereft of kindness and be blamed by relatives.

Sūrya, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 9th Bhava: will be unsteady, or excessively passionate, be skillful in conversations relating to sex, very miserable and dull.

Sūrya, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 9th Bhava: will perform auspicious acts, be liberal in speech, will receive royal orders and be fierce in speech.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 9th Bhava: will like guests, be with wise people, be chief among his men and be justly disposed.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śukr in the 9th Bhava: will be truthful, be interested in such people, skillful in relation and be patient.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śani in the 9th Bhava: will possess beautiful hands and appearance, be chief among his men, will have much of Śāstraic acquaintance and be dear to king.

Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śukr in the 9th Bhava: will have many children, be skillful in royal duties, be fond of visiting shrines and be and expert in Śāstras.

Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śani in the 9th Bhava: will be fond of good qualities, be honoured by kings, will conquer his five senses and be self-respected.

Candr, Mangal, Śukr, Śani in the 9th Bhava: will be famous, charitable, skillful highly learned and be rich by royal honours.

Candr, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 9th Bhava: will be an emperor, be devoid of enemies and be endowed with elephants, horses and treasures of various kinds.

Candr, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 9th Bhava: will be endowed with liberal acts, be fond of good deeds, skillful and be always inclined to uphold religion.

Candr, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 9th Bhava: will be affable, will befriend good people, be cunning and skillful.

Candr, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 9th Bhava: will be interested in worshipping Gods and Brahmins, will have famous notions and will control his five senses.

Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 9th Bhava: will be highly bashful, be truthful, merciful and virtuous.

Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 9th Bhava: will have sons, wealth and pleasures of many kinds, will possess a beautiful physique and be acceptable to people.

Mangal, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 9th Bhava: will be fond of success, will be endowed with good history and be successful.

Mangal, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 9th Bhava: will perform sacrifices, be lordly disposed, be charitable and be sinless.

Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 9th Bhava: will be expert in profane knowledge and Vedas.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 9th Bhava: will be firmly courageous, be devoid of wisdom, be fierce and be bereft of Śāstraic knowledge.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śukr in the 9th Bhava: will be endowed with various kinds of wealth and knowledge of sacred treatises, will be in the company of good people and be endowed with money and relatives.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śani in the 9th Bhava: will achieve education to its end, will have fame well-spread, be endowed with a pleasing physique and be expert in the branch of justice.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śukr in the 9th Bhava: will be fond of Brahmins, be attached to religion, be of good disposition, be very wealthy and be fearless.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śani in the 9th Bhava: will be liberal in disposition, be affectionate, be a great man and will be firm in friendship.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Śukr, Śani in the 9th Bhava: will have religious faith, be charitable, be delighted, or gracious, will have ethical jobs and be devoid of desires.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Śukr: will be firmly valorous, be devoid of intelligence, be fierce in disposition, be bereft of Vedic knowledge and be immodest.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 9th Bhava: will respect his mother and father, will be endowed with pleasing appearance, be very wealthy and be amiable to Brahmins.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 9th Bhava: will be interested in religious vows, be chief among his men, will possess a body without any disease and be amiable to people.

Sūrya, Candr, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 9th Bhava: will acquire many kinds of wealth, be fond of his wife (or women), will hold the flag of Virtue aloft and be famous.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 9th Bhava: will enjoy immense wealth, be greatly intelligent, will have many friends and will defeat his enemies.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 9th Bhava: will be grateful, enthusiastic, fond of charity, intelligent and beautiful.

Sūrya, Mangal, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 9th Bhava: will be interested in the acquisition of knowledge, be charitably disposed, virtuous, pure and be devoid of residence (or dependents).

Sūrya, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 9th Bhava: will be shameless, be of bad disposition, be troubled by disease and will fear war (or quarrels, i.e. will be timidly disposed).

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 9th Bhava: will have good intelligence, will conquer enemies, be merciful and be fond of Brahmins.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 9th Bhava: will be bereft of diseases, be interested in undertaking acts related to God, be fond of good men and will be liked by the king.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 9th Bhava: will be timidly disposed, be endowed with sons and wife, be dutiful to his family and will always speak truth.

Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 9th Bhava: will be endowed with great wisdom and learning, helpful to elders and will respect Gods and Brahmins.

Candr, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 9th Bhava: will be bereft of cunning tendency, will possess good intelligence, be charitable and be not sinful.

Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 9th Bhava: will be honoured by king, be fond of women and be devoid of fear and misery.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 9th Bhava: will be sinful, interested in sinful tales (conversation), will be in the company of bad people and be censured by people.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 9th Bhava: will be predominantly jealous, be devoid of fame and virtues and be not wise.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 9th Bhava: will be endowed with lovely pleasures, be devoid of great strength, be a dejected citizen and be of hard disposition.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 9th Bhava: will be fraudulent, timid, ugly, devoid of good qualities and be highly proud.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 9th Bhava: will cause extinction (like a butcher), will eat voraciously, be sinfully disposed and be cruel.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 9th Bhava: will be the lord of the earth, will be endowed with treasury (i.e. will have abundant wealth), be fearless, will be will bestowed (in all respects).

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani: will enjoy great happiness, be free from diseases and be intelligent.

10th
Sūrya, Candr: will not be skillful, be wicked by nature, be of bad disposition, be not charitable and be fond of women.

Sūrya, Mangal: will be very much devastated, be successful, be liked by king and fond of relatives.

Sūrya, Budh: will be very intelligent, be famous, be free from desires, be fond of others, truthful and grateful.

Sūrya, Guru: will help people, will have abundant wealth and conveyances and will speak affectionately and sweetly.

Sūrya, Śukr: will be self-respected, beautiful, virtuous, fearless and be well-versed in religious commandments.

Sūrya, Śani: will be devoid of wealth, be eminent, will have broad eyes, lovely arms and face, long hair and be very intelligent.

Candr, Mangal: will be honoured by king, will conquer enemies, will have many assignments and will earn money through interest (i.e. by lending).

Candr, Budh: will be favourable to Brahmins, will be ever diligent, be interested in meritorious acts, be widely famous and be bold in his deeds.

Candr, Guru in the 10th Bhava: will be courageous, endowed with strength, wise, will have income through fair means, be happy, chief and devoid of foul thinking.

Candr, Śukr in the 10th Bhava: will acquire wealth and intelligence, be an agriculturist, will derive happiness through the king and be worshiped by him and be of exalted rank.

Candr, Śani in the 10th Bhava: will be very modest, will have many friends, be famously valorous, favourable to Brahmins and be firmly virile.

Mangal, Budh in the 10th Bhava: will be bold, intelligent, will be endowed with good disposition, wealth and knowledge of sacred treatises, truthful, be fond of music and be religious.

Mangal, Guru in the 10th Bhava: will be endowed with abundant attendance (will have many servants), will possess god history, be interested in Vedas and others Śāstras, be within the sphere of religion and will cause satisfaction to others.

Mangal, Śukr: will be endowed with various kinds of eatables and drinks, will live in great shrines, be delighted, merciful and very modest.

Mangal, Śani: will have knowledge of Vedas, be endowed with virtues, be not cunning, will have quadrupeds and sons, be always plentiful and will possess very pleasing appearance.

Budh, Guru in the 10th Bhava: will be very miserable, will be famous, truthful, kind, pure in nature and be endowed with wealth and grains.

Budh, Śukr in the 10th Bhava: will be fortunate, lovely, be fond of guests, interested in religious conversations, will have pleasing appearance and be firmly friendly.

Budh, Śani in the 10th Bhava: will be interested in calculation i.e. will be an expert mathematician, will have famous job, be highly intelligent and be always attached to Gods and Brahmins.

Guru, Śukr in the 10th Bhava: will be fond of Brahmins (wise men), be highly intelligent, be truthful and will visit shrines.

Guru, Śani in the 10th Bhava: will be chief among Vedic scholars, be principled, be highly valorous and be dear to people.

Śukr, Śani in the 10th Bhava: will be highly intelligent, be pure by nature, be endowed with sovereignty, be a great personage and be interested in the virtuous.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal in the 10th Bhava: will be devoid of truth and vigour, be fond of battle, be dear to king, be modest in speech and be fond of doing good people’s jobs.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh: will be bereft of sins, be fond of wisdom (be intelligent), be sovereignly, will possess a charming physique and will be highly honoured.

Sūrya, Candr, Guru in the 10th Bhava: will be chief among the intelligentsia, will have a secure (unhurt) physique, will have vast attendance upon him, be chief among his men and be intelligent.

Sūrya, Candr, Śukr: will visit shrines, be fond of attending upon good people, will have knowledge of justice, be very wealthy and will skillfully act with females.

Sūrya, Candr, Śani in the 10th Bhava: will always maintain purity (i.e. be an orthodox person), be devoid of justice, will perform mean acts and will desire the advent of abundant grains.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh in the 10th Bhava: will be highly religious (or charitable), be very scholarly, will have many friends, be honoured by the public, be fond of the virtuous and will be very modest.

Sūrya, Mangal, Guru in the 10th Bhava: will always be charitable, will possess lovely speech, be not showy, be fond of good people and be very modest.

Sūrya, Mangal, Śukr in the 10th Bhava: will be repository of truth and fame, will have plenty of money earned through sovereign honour, be fortunate and just.

Sūrya, Mangal, Śani in the 10th Bhava: will be akin to the Celestial Tree (i.e. capable of giving anything asked for), pleasing in appearance, be splendourous, be learned in Śāstras, be chief in the midst of his men and be always happy.

Sūrya, Budh, Guru: will be devoid of moral duty, be devoid of anger, be fond of those, who observe religious vows and be fond of sacrifices and Religion.

Sūrya, Budh, Śukr in the 10th Bhava: will be patient, charming, be fond of learned circle, be very just, highly learned and be amiable to Brahmins.

Sūrya, Budh, Śani in the 10th Bhava: will be highly knowledgeable, patient, truthful, kingly, very wealthy and be skillful in many acts.

Sūrya, Guru, Śukr in the 10th Bhava: will be very religious, will promote the growth of his descent, be liked by good people and be pleasing in appearance.

Sūrya, Guru, Śani in the 10th Bhava: will be endowed with commendable speech, be very modest, be very rich and will honour Gods and preceptors.

Sūrya, Śukr, Śani in the 10th Bhava: will be famous, grateful, be endowed with learning, wisdom, Vedas and Śāstras, be devoid of desires, be enthusiastic and cautious.

Candr, Mangal, Budh in the 10th Bhava: will be devoid of moral duties, be inimical, enthusiastic, be liberal and amiable to people.

Candr, Mangal, Guru in the 10th Bhava: will consider truth, as wealth, be pleasing in appearance, be honoured by the king, modest, eminent, will be endowed with good drinks, wife and sons and be fond of learning.

Candr, Mangal, Śukr in the 10th Bhava: will be interested in shrines and tales, be fortunate, will defeat enemies and worship Gods and Brahmins.

Candr, Mangal, Śani in the 10th Bhava: will be splendourous, skillful in conversation, be highly bashful, honoured by kings and be skillful in helping others.

Candr, Budh, Guru in the 10th Bhava: will be worshiped by the king, be firm in disposition, will be endowed with exalted position (or riches), be interested in Vedas and be conscientious of justice.

Candr, Budh, Śukr: will be kind to living beings, be very shameful, devoid of sexual desires, be always enthusiastic and be splendourous.

Candr, Budh, Śani in the 10th Bhava: will consider truth, as wealth, be devoid of desires, acceptable (to all), will possess regulated speech, be eminent, firm in disposition and be sickly disposed.

Candr, Guru, Śukr in the 10th Bhava: will be very beautiful, very valorous, be endowed with sons and friends and will have abundant wealth earned by his vast intelligence.

Candr, Guru, Śani in the 10th Bhava: will be devoid of learning and modesty, will join the company of good men, be endowed with justice and will be honoured by the king.

Candr, Śukr, Śani in the 10th Bhava: will be endowed with wealth, be lordly among people, will enjoy honour and fame, but be ill-tempered.

Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 10th Bhava: will be interested in truth, be modest, be very meritorious in his act, be charitable, chief of his men and pleasing to look at.

Mangal, Budh, Śukr in the 10th Bhava: will be endowed with great wealth and be very valorous, will conquer his enemies, be patient and be fond of visiting shrines.

Mangal, Budh, Śani in the 10th Bhava: will be famous, be endowed with wife, be very wise, be liked by women, be chief in his decent and will possess good qualities.

Mangal, Guru, Śukr in the 10th Bhava: will always be eminent, be very valorous and be well-disposed to relatives.

Mangal, Guru, Śani in the 10th Bhava: will earn more money through terrorizing act, be famous, rich and be skilful in the branch of Justice.

Mangal, Śukr, Śani in the 10th Bhava: will be curt, will perform rash act, will be highly distressed, will have abundant wealth and be important in his decent.

Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 10th Bhava: will be a great king, be very valorous, charitable and truthful.

Budh, Guru, Śani in the 10th Bhava: will be saintly, courageous, be greatly affluent, will know justice and be fond of his relatives.

Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 10th Bhava: will be interested in (creating) park and well, be charitable and will attain fame by his vat wisdom.

Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 10th Bhava: will be pure by nature, be eminent by his intelligence, be honoured by the virtuous and will be free from ailment.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh in the 10th Bhava: will be a repository of learning, be endowed with abundant wealth, will have unlike (on) and be forsaken by others.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Guru in the 10th Bhava: will have many servant, be splendourous, be liked by the virtuous and king.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Śukr in the 10th Bhava: will be endowed with horses (i.e. conveyances), will proper greatly, be not given to anger and be fond of God and Brahmin.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Śani in the 10th Bhava: will have abundant wealth and Śāstraic knowledge, be grateful, endowed with robe and ornament and will possess good qualities.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Guru: will be a skillful speaker, be firm in disposition, be free from sins and be ever exalted.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Śukr in the 10th Bhava: will be grateful, enthusiastic and will be praised by the virtuous.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Śani in the 10th Bhava: make one wealthy and ungrateful.

Sūrya, Candr, Guru, Śukr in the 10th Bhava: will possess good qualities, be famous, charitable and be a scholar.

Sūrya, Candr, Guru, Śani in the 10th Bhava: will befriend many, be happy with on, be very kind and will be devoted to penance.

Sūrya, Candr, Śukr, Śani in the 10th Bhava: will be splendourous, pure, be a chief personage, be ever diligent, honourable and noble.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 10th Bhava: will be truthful, fond of Brahmin, be devoid of desire, be famous, will visit shrines and will have many on.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Śukr in the 10th Bhava: will be interested in guest, be in the company of good men, be learned and friendly disposed.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Śani in the 10th Bhava: will make one an army chief, a king’ minister, do mean act and go after mundane pleasures.

Sūrya, Mangal, Guru, Śukr in the 10th Bhava: will be well-disposed, will have great wealth, many on, be grateful, splendourous and virtuous.

Sūrya, Mangal, Guru, Śani in the 10th Bhava: will be a scholar, skilful in justice, be jealous and firmly virile.

Sūrya, Mangal, Śukr, Śani in the 10th Bhava: will be a devoted townsmen, be self-respected and be endowed with sons, wealth and conveyances.

Sūrya, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 10th Bhava: will be endowed with various kinds of wealth, drinks and many sons, be highly learned and skilful in his work.

Sūrya, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 10th Bhava: will receive royal honour, will have knowledge of religious performance, be valorous, be a poet and will be against sins.

Sūrya, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 10th Bhava: will be very kind, be truthful, be devoted to Fire God and will possess a pleasing appearance.

Sūrya, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 10th Bhava: will be virtuous, be always interested in his father’ assignment, be amiable to people and will be wealthy.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 10th Bhava: will principally earn through his servant, be devoid of enemies and always be fond of assembly and skilful people.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śukr in the 10th Bhava: will be fond of installing gardens and tree, be splendourous, will possess horses and be bereft of good qualities.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śani in the 10th Bhava: will be charitable, be very famous and be helpful to relatives.

Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śukr in the 10th Bhava: will be famous, be interested in Śāstraic conversation, be faithful to religion and be endowed with religion.

Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śani in the 10th Bhava: will be highly intelligent, be very proficient, be praiseworthy, be helpful, to people and will have good servant.

Candr, Mangal, Śukr, Śani in the 10th Bhava: will be of pleased disposition, be dear to king, will possess an attractive physique and be skilful in Justice.

Candr, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 10th Bhava: will possess a band of elephant and horses and will destroy his enemies.

Candr, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 10th Bhava: will have many sons, be rich by fair mean, be liberal, grateful and be free from bodily diseases.

Candr, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 10th Bhava: will be endowed with patience, will possess an ugly body, truthful and will have wealth and sons.

Candr, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 10th Bhava: will be learned, be great poet, be highly religious, will perform meritorious act, be a good personage and be beautiful in appearance.

Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 10th Bhava: will have many friend, abundant wealth and softly robe, be fortunate and be devoid of good-will.

Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 10th Bhava: will be heroic, be dear to king, be skilful in conducting a war, will possess a big treasury i.e. be highly wealthy and be acceptable to people.

Mangal, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 10th Bhava: will be enthusiastic, be very just, be enduring, will conquer his five senses and be pleasing to look at.

Mangal, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 10th Bhava: will be firm in disposition, be skilful in performance, be ever diligent, be very wealthy and be delighted.

Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 10th Bhava: will be fond of exalted service (i.e. will make attempt to reach a high position of life), will be pleasing in appearance, be a great man and be fond of Brahmin.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 10th Bhava: will be valorous, just, will possess good physique, be highly shy and be free from diseases.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śukr in the 10th Bhava: will be truthful, kind will be endowed with good conduct, be a dealer in gold and be happy.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śani in the 10th Bhava: will be chief in his decent, be principled, learned and skilful in poetry.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śukr in the 10th Bhava: will be an expert in art, be endowed with patience, interested in being honoured and be learned in justice.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śani in the 10th Bhava: will perform sacrifice, be enthusiastic, be devoid of pain, be an agriculturist and be wealthy.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Śukr, Śani in the 10th Bhava: will be highly intelligent, will win over his enemies, be eminently rich and be justly disposed.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Śukr: will be extremely patient, be devoid of sins, be eminently intelligent and be a winner in regard to Śāstras (will win anybody in the matter of Śāstras).

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 10th Bhava: will be learned, modest, will reach an eminent status, be fond of sacrifice and conveyance.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 10th Bhava: will be dear to people, be happy with living being (i.e. will possess animal etc.), be grateful, be endowed with distinguished speech and will possess an attractive body.

Sūrya, Candr, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 10th Bhava: will have many horses (i.e. conveyance), will possess a body free from sickness, be plentiful, be principally reach and be skilful in assignments relating to war.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 10th Bhava: will be free from diseases, be dear to women, will have foul speech and be very beloved.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 10th Bhava: will possess many horses, be valorous, learned and will have many friend.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 10th Bhava: will have many children, be truthful, pure, delighted, fond of visiting shrines and follow religious vow.

Sūrya, Mangal, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 10th Bhava: will be very justly disposed, will have vat attendance upon him, will have good history and learning, be intelligent, will not trouble others, will be highly patient and be fond of his wife.

Sūrya, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 10th Bhava: will be wise, equal to the preceptor of God (i.e. highly learned, like Jupiter, the preceptor of God), be religious, will have vat knowledge of Śāstras and will possess good qualities.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 10th Bhava: will be liked by many king, be principal among poet and be modest.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 10th Bhava: will be interested in having religious vow, be skilful in living in foreign countries, will earn wealth by fair mean and be bereft of vice.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 10th Bhava: will be valorous justly disposed, virtuous, be a poet and be libidinous.

Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 10th Bhava: will be liked by god people, be devoid of artificial disposition and be fond of serving the virtuous.

Candr, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 10th Bhava: will be a principal royal officer, be endowed with elephant and horses, be diligent in performing yagia and be worshipped by relatives.

Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 10th Bhava: will be interested in poetry, be skilful in various Śāstras, be wealthy, enthusiastic and be cautious.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 10th Bhava: will be king of king, be devoid of his own men, be very valorous and be splendourous.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 10th Bhava: will be a synonym of charity, be a king, be virtuous, be very graciously disposed and be dear to people.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 10th Bhava: will visit famous shrines, be a principal person with the king, be interested in learning and be devoid of fear.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 10th Bhava: will be fond of partaking in battle, be of an exalted rank with the king, be famous, merciful and truthful.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 10th Bhava: will be endowed with various kind of elephant and horses, be fond of guest and be widely famous.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 10th Bhava: it lead to vagabondness and high wisdom.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 10th Bhava: will be steady in disposition and will have his feet above the bejeweled head of the king (i.e. the king will prostate before the native, that the native is so eminent).

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 10th Bhava: will have the wealth of truth and fame, be a king, be charitable and famous.

11th
Sūrya, Candr: will have financial gain, be always plentiful, will possess superior horses, will be devoted to the Almighty and will be very friendly disposed.

Sūrya, Mangal: will be courageous, will destroy enemies, will not join the band of inner, be devoid of pride and be lordly disposed.

Sūrya, Budh in 11th: will have plenty of gain, be a skillful trader, be wealthy, will have knowledge of justice, be learned and be fond of all people.

Sūrya, Guru: will be interested in Brahmins’ assignment, be fond of garden and well, will perform Yagna, be learned in many Śāstras and be skillful in husbandry.

Sūrya, Śukr: will have many friends, be dear to king and be firmly courageous.

Sūrya, Śani: will be endowed with various kinds of wealth, be high-souled, be a scholar, be grateful, free from miseries and delighted.

Candr, Mangal: will have relatives, will be intelligent, skillful, will have many friends and be pleasing to look at.

Candr, Budh in the 11th Bhava: will be fortunate, good looking, learned, splendourous, plentiful, will have many friend and be very friendly.

Candr, Guru: will be free from diseases, be scholarly, will conquer his enemies, will have growth and gain of money, be a great man and be dear to king.

Candr, Śukr in the 11th Bhava: will be free from diseases, be learned, will have excellent children, be truthful, eminent, will have attractive eyes and be fond of women.

Candr, Śani: will be fond of praise, will have happiness of many kinds, will earn wide fame, be charitably disposed and will win over enemies.

Mangal, Budh in the 11th Bhava: will have plenty of gain, will conquer his five senses, be fond of Śāstras, be eminent, be always happy and be of agreeable disposition.

Mangal, Guru in the 11th Bhava: will not be sinful, be very efficacious, be modest, be always diligent and will care for Brahmins.

Mangal, Śukr: will be supreme by virtue of his religious vow and initiation, be well-read, enthusiastic, be of exalted rank, be patient and will worship (be loyal to) the king.

Mangal, Śani in the 11th Bhava: will be famously efficacious, will conquer his five senses, be courageous, eminent and will always enjoy abundant robe and ornament.

Budh, Guru in the 11th Bhava: will be endowed with elephant and horses, be splendourous, be pure, be of exalted rank, be fond of visiting shrines and be skillful in all art.

Budh, Śukr in the 11th Bhava: will be endowed with many excellent pearls, will have many sons, be very meritorious in his act, be of good qualities, be pure in disposition and be dear to all.

Budh, Śani in the 11th Bhava: will have an auspicious wife, will himself be auspicious, be attached to well-meaning person, be interested in yagna and be always favorable to relative.

Guru, Śukr in the 11th Bhava: will be extremely intelligent, will possess a pleasing face, will have a wife, be famous, will enjoy physical pleasure and be happy.

Guru, Śani in the 11th Bhava: will worship Brahmins, be very splendourous, very wealthy, lordly and famous.

Śukr, Śani in the 11th Bhava: will be interested in many Śāstras, be endowed with gold and precious stone, like cat’s eye, pearl and ruby, be a loyal citizen and be principled.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal in the 11th Bhava: will be endowed with hundred of gain, be splendourous, be justly disposed, will have beautiful eye, will perform auspicious act and be free from desire.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh in the 11th Bhava: will have virtuous principle to follow, will reach an exalted rank, will possess attractive face and eye, will be fond of women, be fond of truth and be very friendly disposed.

Sūrya, Candr, Guru in the 11th Bhava: will be very famous, will worship God, will have many kinds of wealth and abundant Śāstraic knowledge, be highly learned, be famous and will be praised even by the confident.

Sūrya, Candr, Śukr in the 11th Bhava: will be free from diseases, be splendourous, pleasing in appearance, proficient, be dear to king and will always be at the service of the virtuous.

Sūrya, Candr, Śani in the 11th Bhava: will be endowed with happiness, will be good looking, will acquire abundant wealth, conveyance, food and clothe, will have obedient servant and be firmly friendly in nature.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh in the 11th Bhava: will possess great brilliance, be a skillful justice, will possess a surprising physique and also ornament, be free from desire, will have great Vedic knowledge and be skillful in religious act.

Sūrya, Mangal, Guru in the 11th Bhava: will be highly intelligent, will possess an attractive physique, be a will dispose person, be religious and long-live.

Sūrya, Mangal, Śukr in the 11th Bhava: will be very wealthy, be learned in Veda, dear grateful, will possess an attractive physique and be interested in Śāstras.

Sūrya, Mangal, Śani in the 11th Bhava: will be very intelligent very attractive, fortunate, religious and long-lived.

Sūrya, Budh, Guru: will be gainful, will be skillful in orthodox law, will adopt virtuous course, be very famous, be firm in disposition, be honoured and will reach an eminent rank.

Sūrya, Budh, Śukr in the 11th Bhava: will be free from diseases, highly learned, be interested in Śāstras, be endowed with sloe, will destroy enemies and will honour Brahmins.

Sūrya, Budh, Śani in the 11th Bhava: will be respected by all the king, will be initiated, be very interested in Śāstras will reach a very eminent position and will honour Brahmins.

Sūrya, Guru, Śukr in the 11th Bhava: will possess brilliance, be courageous, will consider virtue a his wealth, will have knowledge of justice, be of firm disposition and be respected by the king.

Sūrya, Guru, Śani in the 11th Bhava: will be valorous, be very rich, will have knowledge of many sacred precept, be learned and be peaceful.

Sūrya, Śukr, Śani in the 11th Bhava: will be strong, delighted, modest, kind and will worship God and elder.

Candr, Mangal, Budh in the 11th Bhava: will possess rich conveyance, will earn by truthful mean, be fond of people and be devoid of fear.

Bhava: will be free from sweating and diseases, be liberal, fortunate, will posses a pleasing body, will have conveyance and be eminent.
Candr, Mangal, Śukr in the 11th Bhava: will be truthful and argumentative, be a member (or atant) of an assembly (or a meeting) will have all kind of happiness and will earn ornament by worship of lord Siva.

Candr, Mangal, Śani in the 11th Bhava: will earn wealth, be attractive, highly intelligent, pure and be a great man.

Candr, Budh, Guru in the 11th Bhava: will be fond of joining assembly of skillful men, be eminent, learned, be a repository of varied art and be happy through the pleasure of the ruler.

Candr, Budh, Śukr: will be endowed with complexion akin to evening twilight, will be worshiped by the men of the world, will possess beautiful teeth and eyes, be fortunate, will destroy enemies, be fond of visiting shrines and be amiable to Brahmins.

Candr, Budh, Śani in the 11th Bhava: will be endowed with horses and elephant, will be a pleasing speaker, be merciful, will donate gold and be fond of sons.

Candr, Guru, Śukr in the 11th Bhava: will be pure, will be endowed with a delighted face, will tend to become famous, be well praised by the virtuous and be skillful.

Candr, Guru, Śani in the 11th Bhava: will be devoid of fear, be skillful in war preparation and activities related to war, fond of grape and learned in Śāstras.

Candr, Śukr, Śani in the 11th Bhava: will have various gain, be delighted, be a delighting speaker and be delighting to eye.

Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 11th Bhava: will be highly libidinous, will have an attractive physique, attractive feet and hand, will look highly beautiful and will be endowed with a number of horses and elephant.

Mangal, Budh, Śukr in the 11th Bhava: will be interested in his duty, be grateful, be highly learned, be very just, very patient, be a commendable speaker and be worshiped by the king.

Mangal, Budh, Śani in the 11th Bhava: will be truthfully disposed, be good-looking, intelligent, justly disposed, praise worthy and will be endowed with various gain from war.

Mangal, Guru, Śukr in the 11th Bhava: will be patiently disposed, will practice penance, be honourable, be bereft of enemies and be endowed with knowledge of religious rule, learning and ornament.

Mangal, Guru, Śani in the 11th Bhava: will be learned, liberal in speech, fortunate, will have an attractive body, be fond of horses and be wealthy with all kind of happiness.

Mangal, Śukr, Śani in the 11th Bhava: will be beautiful, firm in disposition and friendship, will be endowed with good history and be free from dispute.

Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 11th Bhava: will have attractive appearance, be endowed with elephant, horses and wealth, be cautious, endowed with good qualities and highly learned in Śāstras.

Budh, Guru, Śani in the 11th Bhava: will be very patient, will have many sons, will possess wide learning and vat number of ornament, will be bleed with meritorious act and be very kind.

Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 11th Bhava: will be fond of obtaining distinction, be a king, principal person, be highly praised and fond of visiting shrines.

Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 11th Bhava: will be splendourous, will have mellifluous voice, be a very important person of the whole dynasty, be virtuous and wealthy.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh in the 11th Bhava: will be endowed with great wealth, be fortunate, will win over enemies, will be very liberal and will destroy others.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Guru in the 11th Bhava: will have many children, will be justly disposed, be acquainted with the king, will defeat enemies and will be famously efficacious.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Śukr in the 11th Bhava: will gain gold, pearl, ruby and robe, will be broad-minded and be a royal employee.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Śani in the 11th Bhava: will be very kind, be capable of grieving others, be dear to king and be highly slpendorous.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Guru: will be valorous, virtuous, very learned, worth worship and endowed with good qualities.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Śukr in the 11th Bhava: will be endowed with learning by nature, be learned a poet, be will acquainted with Veda and be helpful to people.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Śani in the 11th Bhava: will be of gracious disposition, will honour great men (or teacher), will have great learning and will enjoy war.

Sūrya, Candr, Guru, Śukr in the 11th Bhava: will be fond of Śāstras, will enjoy fame, be interested in virtue, will be dear and learned.

Sūrya, Candr, Guru, Śani in the 11th Bhava: will be highly efficacious, will exhibit valour, be interested in donating to others and be very intelligent.

Sūrya, Candr, Śukr, Śani in the 11th Bhava: will be famous, liberal and kind, be bereft of diseases and will be pleased among Brahmins.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 11th Bhava: will enjoy good conveyance, will crush his enemies, be efficacious and will be expert in justice.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Śukr in the 11th Bhava: will be liberal in speech, be attached to good men, be fond of king and be valorous.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Śani in the 11th Bhava: will enjoy elaborate arrangement (i.e. all paraphernalia), will be an expert artisan and will possess abundant wealth and a number of conveyance.

Sūrya, Mangal, Guru, Śukr in the 11th Bhava: will be fond of relative, will be a repository of all kind of happiness, will be highly satisfied and be very modest.

Sūrya, Mangal, Guru, Śani in the 11th Bhava: will be highly rich, be liked by women and be endowed with good history, learning and vedic knowledge.

Sūrya, Mangal, Śukr, Śani in the 11th Bhava: will be endowed with splendour be killed in all art, skillful and merciful and be charitable.

Sūrya, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 11th Bhava: will be highly famous, be devoid of desire and will possess beautiful eye and good qualities.

Sūrya, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 11th Bhava: will be served by others, will follow religious observation, will possess a body free from injuries, or will be free from malice in thought, will hold aloft flag of charity and will not be mean (i.e. will be great)

Sūrya, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 11th Bhava: will be firm in disposition, be free from fear and in, will surprise in speech and be learned in Veda.

Sūrya, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 11th Bhava: will acquire several gain, be delighted and be agreeable to people.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 11th Bhava: will be endowed with great learning and abundant riches, be a ruler, will destroy his enemies and be quite charitable.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śukr in the 11th Bhava: Not available.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śani in the 11th Bhava: will have elf restraint, will eat Brahmins’ food, will possess a good physique, be very patient, very charitable and will be pleasing to look at.

Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śukr in the 11th Bhava: will be expert in dealing with machinery, will honour teacher, will be intelligent, will have all kind of happiness and be plentiful.

Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śani in the 11th Bhava: will be a ruler, will join good men, will enjoy plenty of food and drink and will be in the company of skillful men.

Candr, Mangal, Śukr, Śani in the 11th Bhava: will be lord of king (i.e. be an emperor), will be endowed with horses, be valorous and be scholar.

Candr, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 11th Bhava: will be a king with sea a boundaries of his kingdom, will eliminate his enemies and will perform very charitable act.

Candr, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 11th Bhava: will be splendourous, be an auspicious speaker (or will peak only good word), be a leader of scholar, be a lord of the earth and be agreeable to Brahmins.

Candr, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 11th Bhava: will be good-looking, be a ruler, interested in visiting shrines, be a principal person and be skillful in war.

Candr, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 11th Bhava: will be bright in appearance, will perform meritorious act, will win over his enemies, will be a ruler and be well versed in Śāstras.

Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 11th Bhava: will enjoy all kind of happiness, will suffer from windy complaint, be distinguished, be a ruler and a scholar.

Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 11th Bhava: will be valorous, be a lord, will destroy enemies, will have an attractive face and be charitable.

Mangal, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 11th Bhava: will be strong, or fat, will carry out royal order, be valorous, be devoid of fear and be dear to Brahmins.

Mangal, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 11th Bhava: will be endowed with many sons, abundant wealth and great justice, be a ruler and be devoid of enemies.

Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 11th Bhava: will be highly learned, be lord of the earth and be interested in Vedic studies.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru: will be virtuous, be enthusiastic, be a king, be highly wealthy and a skillful warrior.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śukr in the 11th Bhava: will be an excellent person, be learned in veda, be not artificial in disposition, be a ruler and be meritorious.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śani in the 11th Bhava: will be valorous, be highly bashful, be a king, be cautious, grateful, fierce and be bold in war.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śukr in the 11th Bhava: will be endowed with sons, riches, happiness and pleasure, wise and be a king.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śani in the 11th Bhava: will have many sons, will follow religious observation, be delighted in disposition and be highly greedy.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Śukr, Śani in the 11th Bhava: will be a great scholar, will be honoured by the king, will be endowed with the wealth of elephant (i.e. will have a large number of conveyance) and be averse to sinful act.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Śukr: will have many children, will be highly virtuous, be versed in justice, be delighted and be very friendly.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 11th Bhava: will be fond of Brahmins, be dear to women, be very bashful and famous.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 11th Bhava: will be in the midst of king, be charitable, virtuous and be very wealthy.

Sūrya, Candr, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 11th Bhava: will be endowed with virtue, will please others, will possess beautiful eye, be interested in Wigwam and be famous.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 11th Bhava: will respect parent at all time, be pleasing be a scholar and be patient.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 11th Bhava: will be chief among the men of his dynasty, will have even enemies honour him, be very virtuous and be very charitable.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 11th Bhava: will observe religious vow and fasting, will be devoted to God and Brahmins, charitably disposed, be truthful and kind.

Sūrya, Mangal, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 11th Bhava: will be splendourous, be learned in many Śāstras, be virtuous and pure.

Sūrya, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 11th Bhava: will be interested in learning, will respect God and Brahmins, be inimical to others and be intelligent.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 11th Bhava: will be kind, be endowed with service, or duty, will have beautiful face and be worshiped by relative.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 11th Bhava: will be honoured by the ruler, be skillful in agricultural work, be injured, be devoid of enemies and be endowed with wealth.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 11th Bhava: will be endowed with Śāstraic leaning and wealth, will destroy his enemies, be a ruler and be highly skillful in Śāstras.

Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 11th Bhava: will have abundant learning, be great, will have beautiful knee and be free from sickness.

Candr, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 11th Bhava: will be interested in poetry and tale, be valorous and charitable.

Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 11th Bhava: will be faithful, be abundantly wealthy, be famous, will have many sons and be endowed with elaborate eating comfort.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 11th Bhava: will be endowed with prosperity, learning and wealth, be grateful and be firmly valorous.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 11th Bhava: will be interested in visiting shrines, be intelligent, be learned and be devoid of diseases.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 11th Bhava: will be highly learned, be splendourous, will have knowledge of religious commandment, be worshiped and be virtuous.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 11th Bhava: will honour Brahmins (or the learned), be interested in listening to divine stories, be famous and be learned in Śāstras.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 11th Bhava: will be fond of garden etc., devoted to God, be distinguished, be attached to the virtuous and be expert in Śāstras.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 11th Bhava: will be truthful, be chief in his race, be very wise and be skillful in singing.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani: will be head of all kings (be an emperor), be distinguished and be not delighted, but be endowed with elephants and horses.

12th
Sūrya, Candr in the 12th Bhava: will be short-lived, be charitable and ugly, will do the others’ job and will always join bad men.

Sūrya, Mangal in the 12th Bhava: will be distressed, will have an emaciated body, be troubled by others, be highly sinful, wicked and devoid of good qualities.

Sūrya, Budh in the 12th Bhava: will be devoid of sickness, will expend on bad mission, be cruel, miserly, dull, not virtuous and be fond of war.

Sūrya, Guru in the 12th Bhava: will have vice, be dirty sickly, ungrateful, will make futile effort and be devoid of religion.

Sūrya, Śukr in the 12th Bhava: will have little happiness, be ugly, be distressed due to the vice of his wicked wife, be fond of sin and be troubled by his libidinous disposition.

Sūrya, Śani in the 12th Bhava: will be inimical to the public, interested in base men and will be burdened by expense on bad deed.

Candr, Mangal in the 12th Bhava: will be hard-hearted, will have mean profession, will be fond of a high degree of purity, be fear stricken and be not virtuous.

Candr, Budh in the 12th Bhava: will indulge in quarrel, be indigent, distressed be very fear stricken and be devoid of splendour.

Candr, Guru in the 12th Bhava: will be harsh in speech, will posses an ugly body, be interested in living in other countries, be devoid of wealth and be not friendly.

Candr, Śukr in the 12th Bhava: will be bereft of wealth, be burdened by expense, be a servant, be wicked, be unkind and be distressed due to anyone.

Candr, Śani in the 12th Bhava: will have bad wife, base sons, inferior grain and enmity, be homeless and be devoid of valour.

Mangal, Budh in the 12th Bhava: will be ugly to look at, be homeless, be troubled by many diseases, be not sensible and be bereft of truth and purity.

Mangal, Guru in the 12th Bhava: will be very infamous, be sexually distressed, be miserable, be burdened by expense, be at the disposal of others and be troubled by relatives.

Mangal, Śukr in the 12th Bhava: will not have much wealth, be distressed due to sons, be not charitable, be always sick, be very mean and be ungrateful.

Mangal, Śani in the 12th Bhava: will be devoid of learning of Śāstras and religious commandment, be troubled by wound, boil etc., will suffer eye disease, be unlucky and be sexually distressed.

Budh, Guru: will be principally an atheist (or a degraded Brahmin), be unkind, be endowed with sons and relatives, be defeated by woman and be illusioned.

Budh, Śukr in the 12th Bhava: will be merciless, will have many enemies, will be of bad disposition, be inimical and be devoid of female and be disappointed.

Budh, Śani in the 12th Bhava: will be very cunning, be distressed due to vice, will wear dirty robe, be in the custody of female and be disappointed.

Guru, Śukr in the 12th Bhava: will be bereft of quadruped and servants, will suffer from a number of diseases, will lose his wealth, will be hard-hearted and be defeated by enemies.

Guru, Śani in the 12th Bhava: will be hard-hearted, be defeated by women, be in the company of people, be timid, sinful and be blameworthy.

Śukr, Śani in the 12th Bhava: will cheat others, be devoid of history, be sick, will wander aimlessly and be without friend.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal in the 12th Bhava: will be a skillful inner, be fond of gambling, be ungrateful, be always diseased and will blame Brahmins.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh in the 12th Bhava: will be poor, sick, illiterate, will be subjected to many trouble, be wicked, miserly, very greedy, libidinous and will wear dirty clothe.

Sūrya, Candr, Guru in the 12th Bhava: will be interested in bad society, be ugly, devoid of religion, will blame others and be bereft of virtue, intelligence and Śāstraic learning.

Sūrya, Candr, Śukr in the 12th Bhava: will have weak neck due to sufferance from hunger, will lose bodily vigour, will be unabashed, be ugly, distressed and unfriendly.

Sūrya, Candr, Śani in the 12th Bhava: will suffer from tuberculosis, be distressed due to phlegmatic disease, be not splendourous, be reduced to great trouble and will suffer in the hand of enemies.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh in the 12th Bhava: will suffer from tuberculosis, be a dunce, be villainous, be devoid of Śāstraic learning, be interested in tale bearer and will incur royal displeasure.

Sūrya, Mangal, Guru in the 12th Bhava: will lose his wealth, will have a number of evil friends, be dull-witted, be devoid of fame, will have ill-gotten money and acquire a bad wife.

Sūrya, Mangal, Śukr in the 12th Bhava: will be sexually distressed, be very base, be devoid of good history, be very distressed sick and be fond of quarrel.

Sūrya, Mangal, Śani in the 12th Bhava: will be distressed due to heavy expenditure, be interested in bad act, be a dunce, be free from fear of imprisonment and will be averse to Śāstras.

Sūrya, Budh, Guru in the 12th Bhava: will be libidinous, blame worthy, be very short tempered, be meritorious ugly, unlucky and will not be praised in the society.

Sūrya, Budh, Śukr in the 12th Bhava: will be cunning, hard hearted, be devoid of distinction, be interested in tale bearer, will have an ugly appearance and will be devoid of desire and enthusiasm.

Sūrya, Budh, Śani in the 12th Bhava: will not be in the company of good men, be not wealthy, be a dunce and wicked, be interested in others wives, will expend on bad mission and will incur royal wrath.

Sūrya, Guru, Śukr in the 12th Bhava: will not be wealthy, be a servant, be bad in disposition, be wicked and distressed out of fear.

Sūrya, Guru, Śani in the 12th Bhava: will be impetuous, will eat others’ food, be very mean and be devoid of wisdom, learning and education.

Sūrya, Śukr, Śani in the 12th Bhava: will be timid, valorous, devoid of justice, devoid of virtue and be fear stricken.

Candr, Mangal, Budh in the 12th Bhava: will be devoid of wealth and wisdom, be ill tempered, unjust, will have many enemies and will be a warrior.

Candr, Mangal, Guru in the 12th Bhava: will be libidinous, blame worthy, be devoid of sons, be interested in others’ job, be wicked and fear-filled.

Candr, Mangal, Śukr in the 12th Bhava: will be base, fond of gambling merciless, splendourous, miserly and be troubled by enemies.

Candr, Mangal, Śani in the 12th Bhava: will have a bad (diseased) body, be devoid of his relatives, be defeated by female and be wicked in disposition.

Candr, Budh, Guru in the 12th Bhava: will be devoid of kindness and be highly afflicted.

Candr, Budh, Śukr in the 12th Bhava: will be devoid of sexual desire, be impetuous, indecisive, or uncertain, be interested in sinful men and be bereft of parent.

Candr, Budh, Śani in the 12th Bhava: will be distressed due to vice, be greedy, base, unfaithful and will cheat others.

Candr, Guru, Śukr in the 12th Bhava: will be unwealthy, homeless, unwise, fond of war and be dishonoured.

Candr, Guru, Śani in the 12th Bhava: will be wicked, highly sinful and will have many vice.

Candr, Śukr, Śani in the 12th Bhava: will be base, will join base men, will be defeated by base men, be himself very base and be devoid of pleasure and virtue.

Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 12th Bhava: will be highly distressed by abundant fear and peaceless, be very proud, be interested in good stories and will honour religious oblation, Brahmins and God.

Mangal, Budh, Śukr in the 12th Bhava: will be illiterate, unfortunate, very pious, merciful and be devoid of affection.

Mangal, Budh, Śani in the 12th Bhava: will be devoid of learning, pleasure and wealth, be hard hearted and will have bad sons.

Mangal, Guru, Śukr in the 12th Bhava: will be wicked, will wander fruitlessly, will indulge in irreligious act, be splendourous and just.

Mangal, Guru, Śani in the 12th Bhava: will be interested in telling, be wounded, ungrateful, devoid of Śāstraic knowledge and be not valorous.

Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 12th Bhava: will be devoid of wisdom, wife, visits to shrines, sons and fame, will also be distressed by fear.

Budh, Guru, Śani in the 12th Bhava: will not be wise, be very cunning, be delighted and fierce in act.

Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 12th Bhava: will be highly miserable, will befriend wicked men and be wise and intelligent.

Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 12th Bhava: will kill Brahmins, be not splendourous, will wear rag, depend on others and be devoid of relatives.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh in the 12th Bhava: will be subjected to much trouble, will be distressed due to sinful tendencies and will not beget desired food.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Guru in the 12th Bhava: will be ungrateful, be not splendourous, be ugly, will fear much and will have many enemies.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Śukr in the 12th Bhava: will be troubled by others, will have wife and sons, be highly respected and be highly sinful.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Śani in the 12th Bhava: will not be intelligent, be highly ‘distinguished’ for his vice, be devoid of obstruction and will not be splendourous.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Guru in the 12th Bhava: will not be bright, will be very distressed due to his disease, be very timid and will be devoid of fame.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Śukr in the 12th Bhava: will not have splendour, be bereft of wisdom and truth, be fierce and averse to sinful act.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Śani in the 12th Bhava: will suffer from serious disease, be ungrateful, will join mean men and be mean-minded.

Sūrya, Candr, Guru, Śukr in the 12th Bhava: will be highly ill tempered, will not have intelligence and money, be not bashful and will be interested in war.

Sūrya, Candr, Guru, Śani in the 12th Bhava: will be timid, will suffer from disease of the rectum, will have burning sensation (or will be thirsty) and be not splendourous.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 12th Bhava: will not be learned in Śāstras, will have many vice, will not follow good path and will suffer from many disease.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Śukr in the 12th Bhava: will be interested in base men, will be highly afflicted, will eat bad food, take bad drink and be very ill tempered.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Śani in the 12th Bhava: will suffer from phlegmatic and windy disease, will not be virtuous and will be able to guess others’ mind.

Sūrya, Mangal, Guru, Śukr in the 12th Bhava: will expend on bad mission, will be highly ill tempered, will have less Śāstraic learning and be mean-minded.

Sūrya, Mangal, Śukr, Śani in the 12th Bhava: will be troubled by base men, will himself be very mean, be distressed and will have miserable sons.

Sūrya, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 12th Bhava: will not be kind, will have a wicked wife, be mean minded and will be bereft of wealth.

Sūrya, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 12th Bhava: will have an injured physique, will posses a prominent wife, will be free from fear of imprisoment, will face destruction of wealth.

Sūrya, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 12th Bhava: will not be faithful, will accuse Brahmins, be a miser, will have an emaciated physique and be dull-witted.

Sūrya, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 12th Bhava: will suffer on account of his own kindness, will not have preceptor and will not have a job to do. (i.e. will be devoid of livelihood).

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 12th Bhava: will not be patient, will be very ill tempered, will lose truthful disposition and will be devoid of wife.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śukr in the 12th Bhava: will be a miser, will suffer from sickness, be devoid of desire and will be troubled by king and thieve.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śani in the 12th Bhava: will suffer from bilious complaint, will be devoid of preceptor and will be miserable on account of female company.

Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śukr in the 12th Bhava: will be very fierce in disposition, will invite risk, will indulge in inimical activities, will be expelled out of his caste and will be blamed by the society.

Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śani in the 12th Bhava: will be very afflicted, will be interested in others’ wives, will expend on bad thing and will suffer from disease.

Candr, Mangal, Śukr, Śani in the 12th Bhava: will be bereft of sons, will resemble ‘fire’ in appearance, will be interested in sinful tale, will be defeated by female and servant.

Candr, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 12th Bhava: will be a bad mater, be not pure, will be devoid of wealth, be unkind, be fond of intoxicant drink and will have bad disposition.

Candr, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 12th Bhava: will be mean, irascible, uncharitable, defeated by women be unkind and will not demonstrate, or prove himself.

Candr, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 12th Bhava: will be impetuous, wicked, will have an injured body, will have burning sensation and will be blamed by people.

Candr, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 12th Bhava: will be devoid of wisdom, be not virtuous, be troubled by others and be a miser.

Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 12th Bhava: will not be bright, be deformed (or distressed), be ugly, be blameworthy and be bereft of friendship.

Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 12th Bhava: will be sinful, defeated, be troubled by women, will have little education, be dejected and fear stricken.

Mangal, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 12th Bhava: will be mean, will join bad people, will adopt others’ religion, will spend on bad thing and be amiable to Brahmins.

Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 12th Bhava: will be homeless, unfriendly, will suffer from lever disorder and will incur royal displeasure.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 12th Bhava: will wear rag, be devoid of affection, will have enemies, be greedy, will perform his duties and be delighted.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śukr in the 12th Bhava: will indulge in bad act, will be friend bad people, be blameworthy, be always sick and be troubled by relatives.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śani in the 12th Bhava: will be interested in Molims, be attached to others’ women and will serve bad society.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śukr in the 12th Bhava: will be devoid of fame, be against society, will have blame worthy religion and blameworthy business.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śani in the 12th Bhava: will be very miserable, be subjected to trouble out of disease, will always be sick, be timid and will have little wealth.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Śukr, Śani in the 12th Bhava: will be devoid of fame, be interested in drink, be cunning in disposition, be hard-hearted, fierce and inimical.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 12th Bhava: will be quite miserable, be interested in wicked people’ company, be highly phlegmatic, be dull-witted and blameworthy.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 12th Bhava: will be inimical to his castemen, will be devoid of good qualities and be artificial in disposition.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 12th Bhava: will be a principal cheat, be very cruel and will be won over by mean people.

Sūrya, Candr, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 12th Bhava: will be very rich, be sensuous, blameworthy, fierce and timid.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 12th Bhava: will be bereft of mercy, will lose his wife and children, will eat veraciously and will be harsh in speech.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 12th Bhava: will be devoid of wealth, wife and vice be harsh, inimical and bad in disposition.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 12th Bhava: will not be wealthy, be fierce, be fond of quarrel, be ugly and will cheat others.

Sūrya, Mangal, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 12th Bhava: will suffer from various kind of disease, will be interested in befriending bad people, will be very libidinous and be timid.

Sūrya, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 12th Bhava: will be dull witted, will have a bad body, will have fearful eye, be inimical to Brahmins, be defeated by enemies and be impetuous.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 12th Bhava: will be fond of telling, be against, greatness, be devoid of his own men and will have wounded body.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 12th Bhava: will become trayed, be against friendly principle, be not kind and be irascible.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 12th Bhava: will betray, be illiterate, be devoid of wife and sons and will be inimical to the king.

Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 12th Bhava: will be interested in mean women, be interested in undesirable friendship, religion and learning and be very sinful.

Candr, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 12th Bhava: will always be troubled by injuries, will be possessing bad thinking, be homeless, be not splendourous and be ugly.

Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 12th Bhava: will be devoid of wealth, be fierce, be fond of quarrel and will have lo of wisdom and wealth.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr in the 12th Bhava: will be devoid of brightness, be interested in joining others’ ideas, will obstruct Brahmins and will cheat others.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śani in the 12th Bhava: will be ungrateful, will have many enemies, be not bashful and will be in a position to guess others’ mind.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Śukr, Śani in the 12th Bhava: will be quite sickly, be bereft of money and sons, be unkind, miser and will have a beautiful wife.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 12th Bhava: will have short life, be devoid of fame and money, will make futile effort and be ill tempered.

Sūrya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 12th Bhava: will always be indolent, will be devoid of wisdom and wealth and will have wicked wife and wicked sons.

Sūrya, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 12th Bhava: will have no place to resort, will derive mean pleasure, will suffer from penury, be untruthful and not virtuous.

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 12th Bhava: will hate Brahmins, be bereft of fame and happiness, be not splendourous and will suffer from many diseases.

Sūrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Śukr, Śani in the 12th Bhava: will indulge in inimical activities, will not be self-respected, will always suffer from penury and will be devoid of wealth and grain.